Spell Name - Classes: Classes List; Spell Level: Level; Cast Time: Time; Range: Range; Duration: Duration; Components: Components; Spell Description: Description
Acid Splash - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You hurl a bubble of acid. Choose one creature within range, or choose two creatures within range that are within 5 feet of each other. A target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 acid damage.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Blade Ward - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 round; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You extend your hand and trace a sigil of warding in the air. Until the end of your next turn, you have resistance against bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage dealt by weapon attacks.
Booming Blade - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (5-foot radius); Duration: 1 round; Components: Somatic, Material (a melee weapon worth at least 1 sp); Spell Description: You brandish the weapon used in the spell’s casting and make a melee attack with it against one creature within 5 feet of you. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack’s normal effects and then becomes sheathed in booming energy until the start of your next turn. If the target willingly moves 5 feet or more before then, the target takes 1d8 thunder damage, and the spell ends.

At Higher Levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an extra 1d8 thunder damage to the target on a hit, and the damage the target takes for moving increases to 2d8. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8 and 3d8) and again at 17th level (3d8 and 4d8).

Chill Touch - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: 1 round; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the space of a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the creature to assail it with the chill of the grave. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 necrotic damage, and it can’t regain hit points until the start of your next turn. Until then, the hand clings to the target. If you hit an undead target, it also has disadvantage on attack rolls against you until the end of your next turn.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Control Flames - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous or 1 hour; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You choose nonmagical flame that you can see within range and that fits within a 5-foot cube. You affect it in one of the following ways:

- You instantaneously expand the flame 5 feet in one direction, provided that wood or other fuel is present in the new location.
- You instantaneously extinguish the flames within the cube.
- You double or halve the area of bright light and dim light cast by the flame, change its color, or both. The change lasts for 1 hour.
- You cause simple shapes—such as the vague form of a creature, an inanimate object, or a location—to appear within the flames and animate as you like. The shapes last for 1 hour. If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.
Create Bonfire - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You create a bonfire on ground that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, the bonfire fills a 5-foot cube. Any creature in the bonfire’s space when you cast the spell must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 fire damage. A creature must also make the saving throw when it enters the bonfire’s space for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Dancing Lights - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Somatic, Material (a bit of phosphorus or wychwood, or a glowworm); Spell Description: You create up to four torch-sized lights within range, making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glowing orbs that hover in the air for the duration. You can also combine the four lights into one glowing vaguely humanoid form of Medium size. Whichever form you choose, each light sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius.

As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the lights up to 60 feet to a new spot within range. A light must be within 20 feet of another light created by this spell, and a light winks out if it exceeds the spell’s range.
Decompose (HB) - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 minute; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You reach out and touch the corpse of a creature. Over the next minute, the corpse begins to rapidly decompose, sprouting fungus and moss as it begins to degrade into compost and mulch. An odd-colored flower or two may also spring from the corpse in this time. Applicable requirements for resurrection are unaffected by this decomposition.
Druidcraft - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one of the following effects within range:

- You create a tiny, harmless sensory effect that predicts what the weather will be at your location for the next 24 hours. The effect might manifest as a golden orb for clear skies, a cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so on. This effect persists for 1 round.
- You instantly make a flower blossom, a seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.
- You create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect, such as falling leaves, a puff of wind, the sound of a small animal, or the faint odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot cube.
- You instantly light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
Eldritch Blast - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: A beam of crackling energy streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 force damage.

At Higher Levels. The spell creates more than one beam when you reach higher levels: two beams at 5th level, three beams at 11th level, and four beams at 17th level. You can direct the beams at the same target or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for each beam.

Encode Thoughts - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 8 hours; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You pull a memory, an idea, or a message from your mind and transform it into a tangible string of glowing energy called a thought strand, which persists for the duration or until you cast this spell again. The thought strand appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you as a Tiny, weightless, semisolid object that can be held and carried like a ribbon. It is otherwise stationary.

If you cast this spell while concentrating on a spell or an ability that allows you to read or manipulate the thoughts of others (such as Detect Thoughts or Modify Memory), you can transform the thoughts or memories you read, rather than your own, into a thought strand.

Casting this spell while holding a thought strand allows you to instantly receive whatever memory, idea, or message the thought strand contains. (Casting Detect Thoughts on the strand has the same effect.)
Fire Bolt - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or object within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 fire damage. A flammable object hit by this spell ignites if it isn’t being worn or carried.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d10 when you reach 5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10), and 17th level (4d10).

Friends - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Somatic, Material (a small amount of makeup applied to the face as this spell is cast); Spell Description: For the duration, you have advantage on all Charisma checks directed at one creature of your choice that isn’t hostile toward you. When the spell ends, the creature realizes that you used magic to influence its mood and becomes hostile toward you. A creature prone to violence might attack you. Another creature might seek retribution in other ways (at the DM’s discretion), depending on the nature of your interaction with it.
Frostbite - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You cause numbing frost to form on one creature that you can see within range. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 1d6 cold damage, and it has disadvantage on the next weapon attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Green-Flame Blade - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (5-foot radius); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Somatic, Material (a melee weapon worth at least 1 sp); Spell Description: You brandish the weapon used in the spell’s casting and make a melee attack with it against one creature within 5 feet of you. On a hit, the target suffers the weapon attack’s normal effects, and you can cause green fire to leap from the target to a different creature of your choice that you can see within 5 feet of it. The second creature takes fire damage equal to your spellcasting ability modifier.

At Higher Levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an extra 1d8 fire damage to the target on a hit, and the fire damage to the second creature increases to 1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8 at 11th level (2d8 and 2d8) and 17th level (3d8 and 3d8).

Guidance - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You touch one willing creature. Once before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one ability check of its choice. It can roll the die before or after making the ability check. The spell then ends.
Gust - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You seize the air and compel it to create one of the following effects at a point you can see within range:

- One Medium or smaller creature that you choose must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 5 feet away from you.
- You create a small blast of air capable of moving one object that is neither held nor carried and that weighs no more than 5 pounds. The object is pushed up to 10 feet away from you. It isn’t pushed with enough force to cause damage.
- You create a harmless sensory affect using air, such as causing leaves to rustle, wind to slam shutters shut, or your clothing to ripple in a breeze.
Hand of Radiance (UA) - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 5 feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You raise your hand, and burning radiance erupts from it. Each creature of your choice that you can see within 5 feet of you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 radiant damage.

At Higher Levels: The spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d8).

Infestation - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Somatic, Material (a living flea); Spell Description: You cause a cloud of mites, fleas, and other parasites to appear momentarily on one creature you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it takes 1d6 poison damage and moves 5 feet in a random direction if it can move and its speed is at least 5 feet. Roll a d4 for the direction: 1, north; 2, south; 3, east; or 4, west. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks, and if the direction rolled is blocked, the target doesn't move.

At Higher Levels: The spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Light - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: 1, 0, 1, a firefly or phosphorescent moss; Spell Description: You touch one object that is no larger than 10 feet in any dimension. Until the spell ends, the object sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. The light can be colored as you like. Completely covering the object with something opaque blocks the light. The spell ends if you cast it again or dismiss it as an action.

If you target an object held or worn by a hostile creature, that creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw to avoid the spell.

Lightning Lure - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (15-foot radius); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 0, 0; Spell Description: You create a lash of lightning energy that strikes at one creature of your choice that you can see within 15 feet of you. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pulled up to 10 feet in a straight line toward you and then take 1d8 lightning damage if it is within 5 feet of you.

At Higher Levels. This spell's damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Mage Hand - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose within range. The hand lasts for the duration or until you dismiss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 30 feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.

You can use your action to control the hand. You can use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or container, stow or retrieve an item from an open container, or pour the contents out of a vial. You can move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.

The hand can’t attack, activate magical items, or carry more than 10 pounds.

Magic Stone - Classes: Druid, Warlock, Artificer; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 minute; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: You touch one to three pebbles and imbue them with magic. You or someone else can make a ranged spell attack with one of the pebbles by throwing it or hurling it with a sling. If thrown, it has a range of 60 feet. If someone else attacks with the pebble, that attacker adds your spellcasting ability modifier, not the attacker’s, to the attack roll. On a hit, the target takes bludgeoning damage equal to 1d6 + your spellcasting ability modifier. Hit or miss, the spell then ends on the stone.

If you cast this spell again, the spell ends early on any pebbles still affected by it.

Mending - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 1; Spell Description: This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves of a broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin. As long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot in any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of the former damage.

This spell can physically repair a magic item or construct, but the spell can’t restore magic to such an object.

Message - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: 1 round; Components: 1, 1, 1, a short piece of copper wire; Spell Description: You point your finger toward a creature within range and whisper a message. The target (and only the target) hears the message and can reply in a whisper that only you can hear.

You can cast this spell through solid objects if you are familiar with the target and know it is beyond the barrier. Magical silence, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood blocks the spell. The spell doesn’t have to follow a straight line and can travel freely around corners or through openings.

Mind Sliver - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 round; Components: 1, 0, 0; Spell Description: You drive a disorienting spike of psychic energy into the mind of one creature you can see within range. The target must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 1d6 psychic damage and subtract 1d4 from the next saving throw it makes before the end of your next turn.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach certain levels: 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Minor Illusion - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: 0, 1, 1; Spell Description: You create a sound or an image of an object within range that lasts for the duration. The illusion also ends if you dismiss it as an action or cast this spell again.

If you create a sound, its volume can range from a whisper to a scream. It can be your voice, someone else’s voice, a lion’s roar, a beating of drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound continues unabated throughout the duration, or you can make discrete sounds at different times before the spell ends.

If you create an image of an object—such as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chest—it must be no larger than a 5-foot cube. The image can’t create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it.

If a creature uses its action to examine the sound or image, the creature can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the illusion becomes faint to the creature.

Mold Earth - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous or 1 hour; Components: 0, 1, 0; Spell Description: You choose a portion of dirt or stone that you can see within range and that fits within a 5-foot cube. You manipulate it in one of the following ways:

If you target an area of loose earth, you can instantaneously excavate it, move it along the ground, and deposit it up to 5 feet away. This movement doesn’t have enough force to cause damage.
You cause shapes, colors, or both to appear on the dirt or stone, spelling out words, creating images, or shaping patterns. The changes last for 1 hour.
If the dirt or stone you target is on the ground, you cause it to become difficult terrain. Alternatively, you can cause the ground to become normal terrain if it is already difficult terrain. This change lasts for 1 hour.
If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have no more than two of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.

On/Off (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: This cantrip allows you to activate or deactivate any electronic device within range, as long as the device has a clearly defined on or off function that can be easily accessed from the outside of the device. Any device that requires a software-based shutdown sequence to activate or deactivate cannot be affected by On/Off.

Poison Spray - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 10 feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: You extend your hand toward a creature you can see within range and project a puff of noxious gas from your palm. The creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d12 poison damage.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d12 when you reach 5th level (2d12), 11th level (3d12), and 17th level (4d12).

Prestidigitation - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 10 feet; Duration: Up to 1 hour; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: This spell is a minor magical trick that novice spellcasters use for practice. You create one of the following magical effects within range:

You create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks, a puff of wind, faint musical notes, or an odd odor.
You instantaneously light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
You instantaneously clean or soil an object no larger than 1 cubic foot.
You chill, warm, or flavor up to 1 cubic foot of nonliving material for 1 hour.
You make a color, a small mark, or a symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.
You create a nonmagical trinket or an illusory image that can fit in your hand and that lasts until the end of your next turn.

If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.

Primal Savagery - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 0, 1, 0; Spell Description: You channel primal magic to cause your teeth or fingernails to sharpen, ready to deliver a corrosive attack. Make a melee spell attack against one creature within 5 feet of you. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 acid damage. After you make the attack, your teeth or fingernails return to normal.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d10 when you reach 5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10), and 17th level (4d10).

Produce Flame - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 10 minutes; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: A flickering flame appears in your hand. The flame remains there for the duration and harms neither you nor your equipment. The flame sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. The spell ends if you dismiss it as an action or if you cast it again.

You can also attack with the flame, although doing so ends the spell. When you cast this spell, or as an action on a later turn, you can hurl the flame at a creature within 30 feet of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 fire damage.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Ray of Frost - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, it takes 1d8 cold damage, and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Resistance - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: 1, 1, 1, a miniatrue cloak; Spell Description: You touch one willing creature. Once before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one saving throw of its choice. It can roll the die before or after the saving throw. The spell then ends.

Sacred Flame - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 radiant damage. The target gains no benefit from cover for this saving throw.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Sapping Sting - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: You sap the vitality of one creature you can see in range. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d4 necrotic damage and fall prone.

At Higher Levels. This spell's damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).

Shape Water - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous or 1 hour; Components: 0, 1, 0; Spell Description: You choose an area of water that you can see within range and that fits within a 5-foot cube. You manipulate it in one of the following ways:

You instantaneously move or otherwise change the flow of the water as you direct, up to 5 feet in any direction. This movement doesn’t have enough force to cause damage.
You cause the water to form into simple shapes and animate at your direction. This change lasts for 1 hour.
You change the water’s color or opacity. The water must be changed in the same way throughout. This change lasts for 1 hour.
You freeze the water, provided that there are no creatures in it. The water unfreezes in 1 hour.

If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have no more than two of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.

Shillelagh - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 minute; Components: 1, 1, 1, mistletoe, a shamrock leaf, and a club or quarterstaff; Spell Description: The wood of a club or quarterstaff you are holding is imbued with nature’s power. For the duration, you can use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that weapon, and the weapon’s damage die becomes a d8. The weapon also becomes magical, if it isn’t already. The spell ends if you cast it again or if you let go of the weapon.

Shocking Grasp - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: Lightning springs from your hand to deliver a shock to a creature you try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the target. You have advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 lightning damage, and it can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Spare the Dying - Classes: Artificer, Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 1, 0; Spell Description: You touch a living creature that has 0 hit points. The creature becomes stable. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.

Sword Burst - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (5-foot radius); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1, 0, 0; Spell Description: You create a momentary circle of spectral blades that sweep around you. All other creatures within 5 feet of you must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 force damage.

At Higher Levels. This spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Thaumaturgy - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You manifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural power, within range. You create one of the following magical effects within range:

Your voice booms up to three times as loud as normal for 1 minute.
You cause flames to flicker, brighten, dim, or change color for 1 minute.
You cause harmless tremors in the ground for 1 minute.
You create an instantaneous sound that originates from a point of your choice within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry of a raven, or ominous whispers.
You instantaneously cause an unlocked door or window to fly open or slam shut.
• You alter the appearance of your eyes for 1 minute.

If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its 1-minute effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.

Thorn Whip - Classes: Artificer, Druid; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: The stem of a plant with thorns; Spell Description: You create a long, vine-like whip covered in thorns that lashes out at your command toward a creature in range. Make a melee spell attack against the target. If the attack hits, the creature takes 1d6 piercing damage, and if the creature is Large or smaller, you pull the creature up to 10 feet closer to you.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Thunderclap - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard, Artificer; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (5-foot radius); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You create a burst of thunderous sound, which can be heard 100 feet away. Each creature other than you within 5 feet of you must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 1d6 thunder damage.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Toll the Dead - Classes: Cleric, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You point at one creature you can see within range, and the sound of a dolorous bell fills the air around it for a moment. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d8 necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its hit points, it instead takes 1d12 necrotic damage.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by one die when you reach 5th level (2d8 or 2d12), 11th level (3d8 or 3d12), and 17th level (4d8 or 4d12).

True Strike - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration up to 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: You extend your hand and point a finger at a target in range. Your magic grants you a brief insight into the target’s defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage on your first attack roll against the target, provided that this spell hasn’t ended.

Vicious Mockery - Classes: Bard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle enchantments at a creature you can see within range. If the target can hear you (though it need not understand you), it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn.

At Higher Levels. This spell’s damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).

Virtue (UA) - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: You touch one creature, imbuing it with vitality. If the target has at least 1 hit point, it gains a number of temporary hit points equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. The temporary hit points are lost when the spell ends.

Word of Radiance - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 5 feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A holy symbol; Spell Description: You utter a divine word, and burning radiance erupts from you. Each creature of your choice that you can see within range must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 radiant damage.

At Higher Levels. The spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

Absorb Elements - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Reaction; Range: Self; Duration: 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: The spell captures some of the incoming energy, lessening its effect on you and storing it for your next melee attack. You have resistance to the triggering damage type until the start of your next turn. Also, the first time you hit with a melee attack on your next turn, the target takes an extra 1d6 damage of the triggering type, and the spell ends.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Acid Stream (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot line); Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A bit of rotten food; Spell Description: A stream of acid emanates from you in a line 30 feet long and 5 feet wide in a direction you choose. Each creature in the line must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be covered in acid for the spell’s duration or until a creature uses its action to scrape or wash the acid off itself or another creature. A creature covered in the acid takes 3d4 acid damage at the start of each of its turns.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 1st.

Alarm - Classes: Artificer, Ranger, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 8 hours; Components: A tiny bell and a piece of fine silver wire; Spell Description: You set an alarm against unwanted intrusion. Choose a door, a window, or an area within range that is no larger than a 20-foot cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm alerts you whenever a tiny or larger creature touches or enters the warded area. When you cast the spell, you can designate creatures that won’t set off the alarm. You also choose whether the alarm is mental or audible.

A mental alarm alerts you with a ping in your mind if you are within 1 mile of the warded area. This ping awakens you if you are sleeping. An audible alarm produces the sound of a hand bell for 10 seconds within 60 feet.

Animal Friendship - Classes: Bard, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 24 hours; Components: A cup of water; Spell Description: This spell lets you convince a beast that you mean it no harm. Choose a beast that you can see within range. It must see and hear you. If the beast’s Intelligence is 4 or higher, the spell fails. Otherwise, the beast must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for the spell’s duration. If you or one of your companions harms the target, the spell ends.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect one additional beast for each slot level above 1st.

Arcane Weapon (UA) - Classes: Artificer; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You channel arcane energy into one simple or martial weapon you’re holding, and choose one damage type: acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 1d6 damage of the chosen type to any target you hit with the weapon. If the weapon isn’t magical, it becomes a magic weapon for the spell’s duration.

As a bonus action, you can change the damage type, choosing from the options above.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours.

Armor of Agathys - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A morsel of food; Spell Description: A protective magical force surrounds you, manifesting as a spectral frost that covers you and your gear. You gain 5 temporary hit points for the duration. If a creature hits you with a melee attack while you have these hit points, the creature takes 5 cold damage.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, both the temporary hit points and the cold damage increase by 5 for each slot.

Arms of Hadar - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (10-foot radius); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You invoke the power of Hadar, the Dark Hunger. Tendrils of dark energy erupt from you and batter all creatures within 10 feet of you. Each creature in that area must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 2d6 necrotic damage and can’t take reactions until its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half damage, but suffers no other effect.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Bane - Classes: Bard, Cleric; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A drop of blood; Spell Description: Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see within range must make Charisma saving throws. Whenever a target that fails this saving throw makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the attack roll or saving throw.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st.

Beast Bond - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A bit of fur wrapped in cloth; Spell Description: You establish a telepathic link with one beast you touch that is friendly to you or charmed by you. The spell fails if the beast’s Intelligence is 4 or higher. Until the spell ends, the link is active while you and the beast are within line of sight of each other. Through the link, the beast can understand your telepathic messages to it, and it can telepathically communicate simple emotions and concepts back to you. While the link is active, the beast gains advantage on attack rolls against any creature within 5 feet of you that you can see.

Bless - Classes: Cleric, Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A sprinkling of holy water; Spell Description: You bless up to three creatures of your choice within range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st.

Burning Hands - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (15-foot cone); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and fingers spread, a thin sheet of flames shoots forth from your outstretched fingertips. Each creature in a 15-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

The fire ignites any flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Catapult - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: Choose one object weighing 1 to 5 pounds within range that isn’t being worn or carried. The object flies in a straight line up to 90 feet in a direction you choose before falling to the ground, stopping early if it impacts against a solid surface. If the object would strike a creature, that creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the object strikes the target and stops moving. When the object strikes something, the object and what it strikes each take 3d8 bludgeoning damage.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the maximum weight of objects that you can target with this spell increases by 5 pounds, and the damage increases by 1d8, for each slot level above 1st.

Cause Fear - Classes: Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You awaken the sense of mortality in one creature you can see within range. A construct or an undead is immune to this effect. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you until the spell ends. The frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.

Ceremony - Classes: Cleric, Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 25 gp worth of powdered silver, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You perform one of several religious ceremonies. When you cast the spell, choose one of the following ceremonies, the target of which must be within 10 feet of you throughout the casting.

Atonement. You touch one willing creature whose alignment has changed, and you make a DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check. On a successful check, you restore the target to its original alignment.

Bless Water. You touch one vial of water and cause it to become holy water.

Coming of Age. You touch one humanoid who is a young adult. For the next 24 hours, whenever the target makes an ability check, it can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the ability check. A creature can benefit from this rite only once.

Dedication. You touch one humanoid who wishes to be dedicated to your god’s service. For the next 24 hours, whenever the target makes a saving throw, it can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to the save. A creature can benefit from this rite only once.

Funeral Rite. You touch one corpse, and for the next 7 days, the target can’t become undead by any means short of a Wish spell.

Investiture (UA). You touch one willing humanoid. Choose one 1st-level spell you have prepared and expend a spell slot and any material components as if you were casting that spell. The spell has no effect. Instead, the target can cast this spell once without having to expend a spell slot or use material components. If the target doesn’t cast the spell within 1 hour, the invested spell is lost.

Wedding. You touch adult humanoids willing to be bonded together in marriage. For the next 7 days, each target gains a +2 bonus to AC while they are within 30 feet of each other. A creature can benefit from this rite again only if widowed.

Chaos Bolt - Classes: Sorcerer; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You hurl an undulating, warbling mass of chaotic energy at one creature in range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d8 + 1d6 damage. Choose one of the d8s. The number rolled on that die determines the attack's damage type, as shown below.

d8    Damage Type
1    Acid
2    Cold
3    Fire
4    Force
5    Lightning
6    Poison
7    Psychic
8    Thunder

If you roll the same number on both d8s, the chaotic energy leaps from the target to a different creature of your choice within 30 feet of it. Make a new attack roll against the new target, and make a new damage roll, which could cause the chaotic energy to leap again.

A creature can be targeted only once by each casting of this spell.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, each target takes 1d6 extra damage of the type rolled for each slot level above 1st.

Charm Person - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within range. It must make a Wisdom saving throw, and does so with advantage if you or your companions are fighting it. If it fails the saving throw, it is charmed by you until the spell ends or until you or your companions do anything harmful to it. The charmed creature regards you as a friendly acquaintance. When the spell ends, the creature knows it was charmed by you.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.

Chromatic Orb - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A diamond worth at least 50 gp; Spell Description: You hurl a 4-inch-diameter sphere of energy at a creature that you can see within range. You choose acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder for the type of orb you create, and then make a ranged spell attack against the target. If the attack hits, the creature takes 3d8 damage of the type you chose.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Color Spray - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (15-foot cone); Duration: 1 round; Components: A pinch of powder or sand that is colored red, yellow, and blue; Spell Description: A dazzling array of flashing, colored light springs from your hand. Roll 6d10, the total is how many hit points of creatures this spell can affect. Creatures in a 15-foot cone originating from you are affected in ascending order of their current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures and creatures that can’t see).

Starting with the creature that has the lowest current hit points, each creature affected by this spell is blinded until the spell ends. Subtract each creature’s hit points from the total before moving on to the creature with the next lowest hit points. A creature’s hit points must be equal to or less than the remaining total for the creature to be affected.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d10 for each slot level above 1st.

Command - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: You speak a one-word command to a creature you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its next turn. The spell has no effect if the target is undead, if it doesn’t understand your language, or if your command is directly harmful to it. Some typical commands and their effects follow. You might issue a command other than one described here. If you do so, the DM determines how the target behaves. If the target can’t follow your command, the spell ends.

Approach. The target moves toward you by the shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it moves within 5 feet of you.

Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and then ends its turn.

Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from you by the fastest available means.

Grovel. The target falls prone and then ends its turn.

Halt. The target doesn’t move and takes no actions. A flying creature stays aloft, provided that it is able to do so. If it must move to stay aloft, it flies the minimum distance needed to remain in the air.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect one additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.

Compelled Duel - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You attempt to compel a creature into a duel. One creature that you can see within range must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is drawn to you, compelled by your divine demand. For the duration, it has disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than you, and must make a Wisdom saving throw each time it attempts to move to a space that is more than 30 feet away from you; if it succeeds on this saving throw, this spell doesn’t restrict the target’s movement for that turn.

The spell ends if you attack any other creature, if you cast a spell that targets a hostile creature other than the target, if a creature friendly to you damages the target or casts a harmful spell on it, or if you end your turn more than 30 feet away from the target.

Comprehend Languages - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A pinch of soot and salt; Spell Description: For the duration, you understand the literal meaning of any spoken language that you hear. You also understand any written language that you see, but you must be touching the surface on which the words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read one page of text.

This spell doesn’t decode secret messages in a text or glyph, such as an arcane sigil, that isn’t part of a written language.

Create or Destroy Water - Classes: Cleric, Druid; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A drop of water if creating water or a few grains of sand if destroying it; Spell Description: You either create or destroy water.

Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean water within range in an open container. Alternatively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot cube within range, extinguishing exposed flames in the area.

Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of water in an open container within range. Alternatively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot cube within range.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you create or destroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of the cube increases by 5 feet, for each slot level above 1st.

Cure Wounds - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: A creature you touch regains a number of hit points equal to 1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Detect Evil and Good - Classes: Cleric, Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: For the duration, you know if there is an aberration, celestial, elemental, fey, fiend, or undead within 30 feet of you, as well as where the creature is located. Similarly, you know if there is a place or object within 30 feet of you that has been magically consecrated or desecrated.

The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

Detect Magic - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: For the duration, you sense the presence of magic within 30 feet of you. If you sense magic in this way, you can use your action to see a faint aura around any visible creature or object in the area that bears magic, and you learn its school of magic, if any.

The spell can penetrate most barriers, but is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

Detect Poison and Disease - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A yew leaf; Spell Description: For the duration, you can sense the presence and location of poisons, poisonous creatures, and diseases within 30 feet of you. You also identify the kind of poison, poisonous creature, or disease in each case.

The spell can penetrate most barriers, but is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

Disguise Self - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You make yourself – including your clothing, armor, weapons, and other belongings on your person – look different until the spell ends or until you use your action to dismiss it. You can seem 1 foot shorter or taller and can appear thin, fat, or in between. You can’t change your body type, so you must adopt a form that has the same basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent of the illusion is up to you.

The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you use this spell to add a hat to your outfit, objects pass through the hat, and anyone who touches it would feel nothing or would feel your head and hair. If you use this spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand of someone who reaches out to touch you would bump into you while it was seemingly still in midair. To discern that you are disguised, a creature can use its action to inspect your appearance and must succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC.

Dissonant Whispers - Classes: Bard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You whisper a discordant melody that only one creature of your choice within range can hear, wracking it with terrible pain. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 psychic damage and must immediately use its reaction, if available, to move as far as its speed allows away from you. The creature doesn’t move into obviously dangerous ground, such as a fire or a pit. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and doesn’t have to move away. A deafened creature automatically succeeds on the save.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Distort Value - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: None; Spell Description: You cast this spell on an object no more than 1 foot on a side, doubling the object's perceived value by adding illusionary flourish or reducing its perceived value by half with the help of illusionary dents and scratches. Anyone examining the object must roll an Investigation check against your spell DC.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a higher spell slot, you increase the size of the object by 1 foot per spell slot over 1st.

Divine Favor - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Your prayer empowers you with divine radiance. Until the spell ends, your weapon attacks deal an extra 1d4 radiant damage on a hit.

Earth Tremor - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (10-foot radius); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You cause a tremor in the ground in a 10-foot radius. Each creature other than you in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. If the ground in that area is loose earth or stone, it becomes difficult terrain until cleared.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Ensnaring Strike - Classes: Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack before this spell ends, a writhing mass of thorny vines appears at the point of impact, and the target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be restrained by the magical vines until the spell ends. A Large or larger creature has advantage on this saving throw. If the target succeeds on the save, the vines shrivel away.

While restrained by this spell, the target takes 1d6 piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature restrained by the vines or one that can touch the creature can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a success, the target is freed.

At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Entangle - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Grasping weeds and vines sprout from the ground in a 20-foot square starting from a point within range. For the duration, these plants turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.

A creature in the area when you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling plants until the spell ends. A creature restrained by the plants can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.

When the spell ends, the conjured plants wilt away.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial area increases by 10 feet for each slot level above 1st.

Expeditious Retreat - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: This spell allows you to move at an incredible pace. When you cast this spell, and then as a bonus action on each of your turns until the spell ends, you can take the Dash action.

False Life - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A small amount of alcohol or distilled spirits; Spell Description: Bolstering yourself with a necromantic facsimile of life, you gain 1d4 + 4 temporary hit points for the duration.

Feather Fall - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Reaction, which you take when you or a creature within 60 feet of you falls; Range: 60 feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: A small feather or a piece of down; Spell Description: Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per round until the spell ends. If the creature lands before the spell ends, it takes no falling damage and can land on its feet, and the spell ends for that creature.

Find Familiar - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Hour; Range: 10 feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 10 gp worth of charcoal, incense, and herbs that must be consumed by fire in a brass brazier; Spell Description: You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes an animal form you choose: bat, cat, crab, frog (toad), hawk, lizard, octopus, owl, poisonous snake, fish (quipper), rat, raven, sea horse, spider, or weasel. Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the familiar has the statistics of the chosen form, though it is a celestial, fey, or fiend (your choice) instead of a beast.
Your familiar acts independently of you, but it always obeys your commands. In combat, it rolls its initiative and acts on its own turn. A familiar can't attack, but it can take other actions as normal.
When the familiar drops to 0 hit points, it disappears, leaving behind no physical form. It reappears after you cast this spell again.
While your familiar is within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with it telepathically. Additionally, as an action, you can see through your familiar's eyes and hear what it hears until the start of your next turn, gaining the benefits of any special senses that the familiar has. During this time, you are deaf and blind with regard to your own senses.
As an action, you can temporarily dismiss your familiar. It disappears into a pocket dimension where it awaits your summons. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever. As an action while it is temporarily dismissed, you can cause it to reappear in any unoccupied space within 30 feet of you.
You can't have more than one familiar at a time. If you cast this spell while you already have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new form. Choose one of the forms from the above list. Your familiar transforms into the chosen creature.
Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of touch, your familiar can deliver the spell as if it had cast the spell. Your familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must use its reaction to deliver the spell when you cast it. If the spell requires an attack roll, you use your attack modifier for the roll.

Fog Cloud - Classes: Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of fog centered on a point within range. The sphere spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the radius of the fog increases by 20 feet for each slot level above 1st.

Frost Fingers - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (15-foot cone); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: Freezing cold blasts from your fingertips in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 2d8 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Gift of Alacrity - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: None; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the target can add 1d8 to its initiative rolls.

Goodberry - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A sprig of mistletoe; Spell Description: Up to ten berries appear in your hand and are infused with magic for the duration. A creature can use its action to eat one berry. Eating a berry restores 1 hit point, and the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain a creature for one day.
The berries lose their potency if they have not been consumed within 24 hours of the casting of this spell.

Grease - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: A bit of pork rind or butter; Spell Description: Slick grease covers the ground in a 10-foot square centered on a point within range and turns it into difficult terrain for the duration.
When the grease appears, each creature standing in its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone. A creature that enters the area or ends its turn there must also succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall prone.

Guiding Bolt - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: A flash of light streaks toward a creature of your choice within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against this target before the end of your next turn has advantage, thanks to the mystical dim light glittering on the target until then.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Guiding Hand (UA) - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 5 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours; Components: None; Spell Description: You create a Tiny incorporeal hand of shimmering light in an unoccupied space you can see within range. The hand exists for the duration, but it disappears if you teleport or you travel to a different plane of existence.
When the hand appears, you name one major landmark, such as a city, mountain, castle, or battlefield on the same plane of existence as you. Someone in history must have visited the site and mapped it. If the landmark appears on no map in existence, the spell fails. Otherwise, whenever you move toward the hand, it moves away from you at the same speed you moved, and it moves in the direction of the landmark, always remaining 5 feet away from you.
If you don't move toward the hand, it remains in place until you do and beckons for you to follow once every 1d4 minutes.

Hail of Thorns - Classes: Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack before the spell ends, this spell creates a rain of thorns that sprouts from your ranged weapon or ammunition. In addition to the normal effect of the attack, the target of the attack and each creature within 5 feet of it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 1d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st (to a maximum of 6d10).

Healing Elixir (UA) - Classes: Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Self; Duration: 24 hours; Components: Alchemist's supplies; Spell Description: You create a healing elixir in a simple vial that appears in your hand. The elixir retains its potency for the duration or until it's consumed, at which point the vial vanishes.
As an action, a creature can drink the elixir or administer it to another creature. The drinker regains 2d4 + 2 hit points.

Healing Word - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: A creature of your choice that you can see within range regains hit points equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 1st.

Hellish Rebuke - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Reaction; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You point your finger, and the creature that damaged you is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames. The creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 2d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.

Heroism - Classes: Bard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: A willing creature you touch is imbued with bravery. Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to being frightened and gains temporary hit points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at the start of each of its turns. When the spell ends, the target loses any remaining temporary hit points from this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st.

Hex - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: The petrified eye of a newt; Spell Description: You place a curse on a creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 1d6 necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit it with an attack. Also, choose one ability when you cast the spell. The target has disadvantage on ability checks made with the chosen ability.
If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn of yours to curse a new creature.
A Remove Curse cast on the target ends this spell early.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.

Hunter's Mark - Classes: Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You choose a creature you can see within range and mystically mark it as your quarry. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 1d6 damage to the target whenever you hit it with a weapon attack, and you have advantage on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check you make to find it.
If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn of yours to mark a new creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.

Ice Knife - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A drop of water or piece of ice; Spell Description: You create a shard of ice and fling it at one creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 piercing damage. Hit or miss, the shard then explodes. The target and each creature within 5 feet of the point where the ice exploded must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 cold damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the cold damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Id Insinuation (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You unleash a torrent of conflicting desires in the mind of one creature you can see within range, impairing its ability to make decisions. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be incapacitated. At the end of each of its turns, it takes 1d12 psychic damage, and it can then make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.

Identify - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A pearl worth at least 100 gp and an owl feather; Spell Description: You choose one object that you must touch throughout the casting of the spell. If it is a magic item or some other magic-imbued object, you learn its properties and how to use them, whether it requires attunement to use, and how many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any spells are affecting the item and what they are. If the item was created by a spell, you learn which spell created it.
If you instead touch a creature throughout the casting, you learn what spells, if any, are currently affecting it.

Illusory Script - Classes: Bard, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: 10 days; Components: A lead-based ink worth at least 10 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You write on parchment, paper, or some other suitable writing material and imbue it with a potent illusion that lasts for the duration.
To you and any creatures you designate when you cast the spell, the writing appears normal, written in your hand, and conveys whatever meaning you intended when you wrote the text. To all others, the writing appears as if it were written in an unknown or magical script that is unintelligible. Alternatively, you can cause the writing to appear to be an entirely different message, written in a different hand and language, though the language must be one you know.
Should the spell be dispelled, the original script and the illusion both disappear. A creature with truesight can read the hidden message.

Infallible Relay (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A mobile phone; Spell Description: With this spell, you can target any creature with whom you have spoken previously, as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. When you cast the spell, the nearest functioning telephone or similar communications device within 100 feet of the target begins to ring. If there is no suitable device close enough to the target, the spell fails.
The target must make a successful Charisma saving throw or be compelled to answer your call. Once the connection is established, the call is crystal clear and cannot be dropped until the conversation has ended or the spell's duration ends. You can end the conversation at any time, but a target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw to end the conversation.

Inflict Wounds - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: Make a melee spell attack against a creature you can reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d10 necrotic damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.

Jim's Magic Missile - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: 1 gold coin, which is consumed as tax for using the spell; Spell Description: You create three twisting, whistling, hypoallergenic, gluten-free darts of magical force. Each dart can target a creature of your choice that you can see within range. Make a ranged spell attack for each missile. On a hit, the missile does 2d4 force damage.
If the attack roll scores a critical, the missile does 5d4 force damage instead of the 4d4 force that you would normally get on a critical. If any of the attack roll is a natural one, all missiles turn around and hit the caster for 1 force damage per missile.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the spell creates one more dart for each slot level above 1st. This also increases the tax by 1 gp per spell slot over 1st.

Jump - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 minute; Components: A grasshopper's hind leg; Spell Description: You touch a creature. The creature's jump distance is tripled until the spell ends.

Longstrider - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Druid, Ranger, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A pinch of dirt; Spell Description: You touch a creature. The target's speed increases by 10 feet until the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st.

Mage Armor - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: A piece of cured leather; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature who isn't wearing armor, and a protective magical force surrounds it until the spell ends. The target's base AC becomes 13 + its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends if the target dons armor or if you dismiss the spell as an action.

Magic Missile - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You create three glowing darts of magical force. Each dart hits a creature of your choice that you can see within range. A dart deals 1d4 + 1 force damage to its target. The darts all strike simultaneously, and you can direct them to hit one creature or several.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the spell creates one more dart for each slot level above 1st.

Magnify Gravity - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: The gravity in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you can see within range increases for a moment. Each creature in the sphere on the turn when you cast the spell must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8 force damage, and its speed is halved until the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and suffers no reduction to its speed.
Until the start of your next turn, any object that isn't being worn or carried in the sphere requires a successful Strength check against your spell save DC to pick up or move.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Protection from Evil and Good - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: Holy water or powdered silver and iron, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch is protected against certain types of creatures: aberrations, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead.
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures of those types have disadvantage on attack rolls against the target. The target also can't be charmed, frightened, or possessed by them. If the target is already charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature, the target has advantage on any new saving throw against the relevant effect.

Protection from Energy - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A bit of fur and a piece of amber, glass, or a crystal rod; Spell Description: For the duration, the willing creature you touch has resistance to one damage type of your choice: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder.

Protection from Evil and Good - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: Holy water or powdered silver and iron, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch is protected against certain types of creatures: aberrations, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead.
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures of those types have disadvantage on attack rolls against the target. The target also can't be charmed, frightened, or possessed by them. If the target is already charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature, the target has advantage on any new saving throw against the relevant effect.

Ray of Frost - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, it takes 1d8 cold damage, and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Shield - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Reaction; Range: Self; Duration: 1 round; Components: None; Spell Description: An invisible barrier of magical force appears and protects you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5 bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, and you take no damage from magic missile.

Sleep - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 Feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: A pinch of fine sand, rose petals, or a cricket; Spell Description: This spell sends creatures into a magical slumber. Roll 5d8; the total is how many hit points of creatures this spell can affect. Creatures within 20 feet of a point you choose within range are affected in ascending order of their current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest current hit points, each creature affected by this spell falls unconscious until the spell ends, the sleeper takes damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the sleeper awake. Subtract each creature's hit points from the total before moving on to the creature with the next lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must be equal to or less than the remaining total for that creature to be affected.
Undead and creatures immune to being charmed aren't affected by this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Tasha's Hideous Laughter - Classes: Bard, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Tiny tarts and a feather that is waved in the air; Spell Description: A creature of your choice that you can see within range perceives everything as hilariously funny and falls into fits of laughter if this spell affects it. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or fall prone, becoming incapacitated and unable to stand up for the duration. A creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or less isn't affected.
At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. The target has advantage on the saving throw if it's triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the duration increases by 1 minute for each slot level above 1st.

Thunderwave - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (15-foot cube); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: A wave of thunderous force sweeps out from you. Each creature in a 15-foot cube originating from you must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away from you. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pushed.
In addition, unsecured objects that are completely within the area of effect are automatically pushed 10 feet away from you by the spell's effect, and the spell emits a thunderous boom audible out to 300 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

True Strike - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 0; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 round; Components: Somatic; Spell Description: You extend your hand and point a finger at a target in range. Your magic grants you a brief insight into the target's defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage on your first attack roll against the target, provided that this spell hasn't ended.

Web - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: Verbal and somatic; Spell Description: You conjure a mass of thick, sticky webbing at a point of your choice within range. The webs fill a 20-foot cube from that point for the duration. The webs are difficult terrain and lightly obscure their area.
If the webs aren't anchored between two solid masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or ceiling, the conjured web collapses on itself, and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.
Each creature that starts its turn in the webs or that enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained as long as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free.
A creature restrained by the webs can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer restrained.
The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube of webs exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.

Witch Bolt - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Verbal and somatic; Spell Description: A beam of crackling blue energy lances out toward a creature within range, forming a sustained arc of lightning between you and the target. Make a ranged spell attack against that creature. On a hit, the target takes 1d12 lightning damage, and on each of your turns for the duration, you can use your action to deal 1d12 lightning damage to the target automatically. The spell ends if you use your action to do anything else. The spell also ends if the target is ever outside the spell's range or if it has total cover from you.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial damage increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 1st.

Wrathful Smite - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The next time you hit with a melee weapon attack during this spell’s duration, your attack deals an extra 1d6 psychic damage. Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must make a Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of you until the spell ends. As an action, the creature can make a Wisdom check against your spell save DC to steel its resolve and end this spell.

Zephyr Strike - Classes: Ranger; Spell Level: 1; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You move like the wind. For the duration, your movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. Once before the spell ends, you can give yourself advantage on one weapon attack roll on your turn. That attack deals an extra 1d8 force damage on a hit. Whether you hit or miss, your walking speed increases by 30 feet until the end of that turn.

Aganazzar's Scorcher - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A red dragon’s scale; Spell Description: A line of roaring flame 30 feet long and 5 feet wide emanates from you in a direction you choose. Each creature in the line must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.

Aid - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 8 hours; Components: A tiny strip of white cloth; Spell Description: Your spell bolsters your allies with toughness and resolve. Choose up to three creatures within range. Each target’s hit point maximum and current hit points increase by 5 for the duration. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, a target’s hit points increase by an additional 5 for each slot level above 2nd.

Alter Self - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You assume a different form. When you cast the spell, choose one of the following options, the effects of which last for the duration of the spell. While the spell lasts, you can end one option as an action to gain the benefits of a different one. Aquatic Adaptation. You adapt your body to an aquatic environment, sprouting gills, and growing webbing between your fingers. You can breathe underwater and gain a swimming speed equal to your walking speed. Change Appearance. You transform your appearance. You decide what you look like, including your height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice, hair length, coloration, and distinguishing characteristics, if any. You can make yourself appear as a member of another race, though none of your statistics change. You also don’t appear as a creature of a different size than you, and your basic shape stays the same; if you're bipedal, you can’t use this spell to become quadrupedal, for instance. Natural Weapons. You grow claws, fangs, spines, horns, or a different natural weapon of your choice. Your unarmed strikes deal 1d6 bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, as appropriate to the natural weapon you chose, and you are proficient with your unarmed strikes. Finally, the natural weapon is magic and you have a +1 bonus to the attack and damage rolls you make using it.

Animal Messenger - Classes: Bard, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 24 hours; Components: A morsel of food; Spell Description: By means of this spell, you use an animal to deliver a message. Choose a Tiny beast you can see within range, such as a squirrel, a blue jay, or a bat. You specify a location, which you must have visited, and a recipient who matches a general description, such as “a man or woman dressed in the uniform of the town guard” or “a red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat.” You also speak a message of up to twenty-five words. The target beast travels for the duration of the spell toward the specified location, covering about 50 miles per 24 hours for a flying messenger, or 25 miles for other animals. When the messenger arrives, it delivers your message to the creature that you described, replicating the sound of your voice. The messenger speaks only to a creature matching the description you gave. If the messenger doesn’t reach its destination before the spell ends, the message is lost, and the beast makes its way back to where you cast this spell. At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration of the spell increases by 48 hours for each slot level above 2nd.

Arcane Hacking (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: Hacking tools; Spell Description: You gain advantage on all Intelligence checks using hacking tools to break software encryption or online security when using a foreign system. This spell also allows you to break 2nd level and lower protective spells such as Arcane Lock or Glyph of Warding by making an Intelligence check using hacking tools against the spell save DC of the spell’s caster. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can attempt to counteract a spell set to secure the foreign system if the spell’s level is equal to or less than the level of the spell slot you used.

Arcane Lock - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Until dispelled; Components: Gold dust worth 25 gp, consumed; Spell Description: You touch a closed door, window, gate, chest, or other entryway, and it becomes locked for the duration. You and the creatures you designate when you cast this spell can open the object normally. You can also set a password that, when spoken within 5 feet of the object, suppresses this spell for 1 minute. Otherwise, it is impassable until it is broken or the spell is dispelled or suppressed. Casting knock on the object suppresses arcane lock for 10 minutes. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration increases by 10 minutes for each slot level above 2nd.

Barkskin - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A handful of oak bark; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the target’s skin has a rough, bark-like appearance, and the target’s AC can’t be less than 16, regardless of what kind of armor it is wearing.

Beacon of Hope - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A holy symbol; Spell Description: This spell bestows hope and vitality. Choose any number of creatures within range. For the duration, each target has advantage on Wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and regains the maximum number of hit points possible from any healing.

Augury - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Self; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Specially marked sticks, bones, or similar tokens worth at least 25 gp; Spell Description: By casting gem-inlaid sticks, rolling dragon bones, laying out ornate cards, or employing some other divining tool, you receive an omen from an otherworldly entity about the results of a specific course of action that you plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM chooses from the following possible omens:

Weal, for good results
Woe, for bad results
Weal and woe, for both good and bad results
Nothing, for results that aren’t especially good or bad

The spell doesn’t take into account any possible circumstances that might change the outcome, such as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain of a companion. If you cast the spell two or more times before completing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.

Barkskin - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A handful of oak bark; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the target’s skin has a rough, bark-like appearance, and the target’s AC can’t be less than 16, regardless of what kind of armor it is wearing.

Beast Sense - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You touch a willing beast. For the duration of the spell, you can use your action to see through the beast’s eyes and hear what it hears, and continue to do so until you use your action to return to your normal senses.

Blindness/Deafness - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You can blind or deafen a foe. Choose one creature that you can see within range to make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails, the target is either blinded or deafened (your choice) for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make a Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell ends.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.

Blur - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Your body becomes blurred, shifting and wavering to all who can see you. For the duration, any creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it doesn't rely on sight, as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as with truesight.

Branding Smite - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack before this spell ends, the weapon gleams with astral radiance as you strike. The attack deals an extra 2d6 radiant damage to the target, which becomes visible if it is invisible, and the target sheds dim light in a 5-foot radius and can’t become invisible until the spell ends.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the extra damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

Calm Emotions - Classes: Bard, Cleric; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You attempt to suppress strong emotions in a group of people. Each humanoid in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must make a Charisma saving throw; a creature can choose to fail this saving throw if it wishes. If a creature fails its saving throw, choose one of the following two effects. You can suppress any effect causing a target to be charmed or frightened. When this spell ends, any suppressed effect resumes, provided that its duration has not expired in the meantime.

Alternatively, you can make a target indifferent about creatures of your choice that it is hostile toward. This indifference ends if the target is attacked or harmed by a spell or if it witnesses any of its friends being harmed. When the spell ends, the creature becomes hostile again, unless the DM rules otherwise.

Cloud of Daggers - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A sliver of glass; Spell Description: You fill the air with spinning daggers in a cube 5 feet on each side, centered on a point you choose within range. A creature takes 4d4 slashing damage when it enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 2d4 for each slot level above 2nd.

Continual Flame - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Until dispelled; Components: Ruby dust worth 50 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: A flame, equivalent in brightness to a torch, springs forth from an object that you touch. The effect looks like a regular flame, but it creates no heat and doesn’t use oxygen. A continual flame can be covered or hidden but not smothered or quenched.

Cordon of Arrows - Classes: Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 5 Feet; Duration: 8 hours; Components: Four or more arrows or bolts; Spell Description: You plant four pieces of nonmagical ammunition – arrows or crossbow bolts – in the ground within range and lay magic upon them to protect an area. Until the spell ends, whenever a creature other than you comes within 30 feet of the ammunition for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, one piece of ammunition flies up to strike it. The creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 piercing damage. The piece of ammunition is then destroyed. The spell ends when no ammunition remains.

When you cast this spell, you can designate any creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of ammunition that can be affected increases by two for each slot level above 2nd.

Crown of Madness - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: One humanoid of your choice that you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become charmed by you for the duration. While the target is charmed in this way, a twisted crown of jagged iron appears on its head, and madness glows in its eyes.

The charmed target must use its action before moving on each of its turns to make a melee attack against a creature other than itself that you mentally choose. The target can act normally on its turn if you choose no creature or if none are within its reach.

On your subsequent turns, you must use your action to maintain control over the target, or the spell ends. Also, the target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.

Darkness - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: Bat fur and a drop of pitch or piece of coal; Spell Description: Magical darkness spreads from a point you choose within range to fill a 15-foot radius sphere for the duration. The darkness spreads around corners. A creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness, and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it.

If the point you choose is on an object you are holding or one that isn’t being worn or carried, the darkness emanates from the object and moves with it. Completely covering the source of the darkness with an opaque object, such as a bowl or a helm, blocks the darkness.

If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of light created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that created the light is dispelled.

Darkvision - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: Either a pinch of dried carrot or an agate; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature to grant it the ability to see in the dark. For the duration, that creature has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.

Detect Thoughts - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A copper piece; Spell Description: For the duration, you can read the thoughts of certain creatures. When you cast the spell and as your action on each turn until the spell ends, you can focus your mind on any one creature that you can see within 30 feet of you. If the creature you choose has an Intelligence of 3 or lower or doesn’t speak any language, the creature is unaffected.

You initially learn the surface thoughts of the creature—what is most on its mind in that moment. As an action, you can either shift your attention to another creature’s thoughts or attempt to probe deeper into the same creature’s mind. If you probe deeper, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, you gain insight into its reasoning (if any), its emotional state, and something that looms large in its mind (such as something it worries over, loves, or hates). If it succeeds, the spell ends. Either way, the target knows that you are probing into its mind, and unless you shift your attention to another creature’s thoughts, the creature can use its action on its turn to make an Intelligence check contested by your Intelligence check; if it succeeds, the spell ends.

Questions verbally directed at the target creature naturally shape the course of its thoughts, so this spell is particularly effective as part of an interrogation.

You can also use this spell to detect the presence of thinking creatures you can’t see. When you cast the spell or as your action during the duration, you can search for thoughts within 30 feet of you. The spell can penetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock, 2 inches of any metal other than lead, or a thin sheet of lead blocks you. You can’t detect a creature with an Intelligence of 3 or lower or one that doesn’t speak any language.

Once you detect the presence of a creature in this way, you can read its thoughts for the rest of the duration as described above, even if you can’t see it, but it must still be within range.

Digital Phantom (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A small piece of copper wire; Spell Description: This spell works to actively hide your presence within a computer system. For the spell’s duration, you and any other users you choose on your local network gain a +10 bonus to Intelligence checks to avoid detection by administrators, knowbots, tracking software, and the like. Whenever you and your chosen users leave any computer system you are working in while this spell is in effect, all trace of your previous presence in that system is erased.

Dragon's Breath - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A hot pepper; Spell Description: You touch one willing creature and imbue it with the power to spew magical energy from its mouth, provided it has one. Choose acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison. Until the spell ends, the creature can use an action to exhale energy of the chosen type in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of the chosen type on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

Dust Devil - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A pinch of dust; Spell Description: Choose an unoccupied 5-foot cube of air that you can see within range. An elemental force that resembles a dust devil appears in the cube and lasts for the spell’s duration.

Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of the dust devil must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 1d8 bludgeoning damage and is pushed 10 feet away. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed.

As a bonus action, you can move the dust devil up to 30 feet in any direction. If the dust devil moves over sand, dust, loose dirt, or small gravel, it sucks up the material and forms a 10-foot-radius cloud of debris around itself that lasts until the start of your next turn. The cloud heavily obscures its area.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.

Earthbind - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 300 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Choose one creature you can see within range. Yellow strips of magical energy loop around the creature. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or its flying speed (if any) is reduced to 0 feet for the spell’s duration. An airborne creature affected by this spell descends at 60 feet per round until it reaches the ground or the spell ends.

Enhance Ability - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: Fur or a feather from a beast; Spell Description: You touch a creature and bestow upon it a magical enhancement. Choose one of the following effects; the target gains the effect until the spell ends.

Bear’s Endurance. The target has advantage on Constitution checks. It also gains 2d6 temporary hit points, which are lost when the spell ends.
Bull’s Strength. The target has advantage on Strength checks, and their carrying capacity doubles.
Cat’s Grace. The target has advantage on Dexterity checks. It also doesn’t take damage from falling 20 feet or less if it isn’t incapacitated.
Eagle’s Splendor. The target has advantage on Charisma checks.
Fox’s Cunning. The target has advantage on Intelligence checks.
Owl’s Wisdom. The target has advantage on Wisdom checks.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.

Enlarge/Reduce - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A pinch of powdered iron; Spell Description: You cause a creature or an object you can see within range to grow larger or smaller for the duration. Choose either a creature or an object that is neither worn nor carried. If the target is unwilling, it can make a Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell has no effect.

If the target is a creature, everything it is wearing and carrying changes size with it. Any item dropped by an affected creature returns to normal size at once.

Enlarge. The target’s size doubles in all dimensions, and its weight is multiplied by eight. This growth increases its size by one category – from Medium to Large, for example. If there isn’t enough room for the target to double its size, the creature or object attains the maximum possible size in the space available. Until the spell ends, the target also has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The target’s weapons also grow to match its new size. While these weapons are enlarged, the target’s attacks with them deal 1d4 extra damage.

Reduce. The target’s size is halved in all dimensions, and its weight is reduced to one-eighth of normal. This reduction decreases its size by one category – from Medium to Small, for example. Until the spell ends, the target also has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The target’s weapons also shrink to match its new size. While these weapons are reduced, the target’s attacks with them deal 1d4 less damage (this can’t reduce the damage below 1).

Enthrall - Classes: Bard, Warlock; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You weave a distracting string of words, causing creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear you to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any creature that can’t be charmed succeeds on this saving throw automatically, and if you or your companions are fighting a creature, it has advantage on the save. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to perceive any creature other than you until the spell ends or until the target can no longer hear you. The spell ends if you are incapacitated or can no longer speak.

Find Steed - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 10 Minutes; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You summon a spirit that assumes the form of an unusually intelligent, strong, and loyal steed, creating a long-lasting bond with it. Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the steed takes on a form that you choose: a warhorse, a pony, a camel, an elk, or a mastiff. (Your DM might allow other animals to be summoned as steeds.) The steed has the statistics of the chosen form, though it is a celestial, fey, or fiend (your choice) instead of its normal type. Additionally, if your steed has an Intelligence of 5 or less, its Intelligence becomes 6, and it gains the ability to understand one language of your choice that you speak.

Your steed serves you as a mount, both in combat and out, and you have an instinctive bond with it that allows you to fight as a seamless unit. While mounted on your steed, you can make any spell you cast that targets only you also target your steed.

When the steed drops to 0 hit points, it disappears, leaving behind no physical form. You can also dismiss your steed at any time as an action, causing it to disappear. In either case, casting this spell again summons the same steed, restored to its hit point maximum.

While your steed is within 1 mile of you, you can communicate with it telepathically. You can’t have more than one steed bonded by this spell at a time. As an action, you can release the steed from its bond at any time, causing it to disappear.

Find Traps - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You sense the presence of any trap within range that is within line of sight.
A trap, for the purpose of this spell, includes anything that would inflict a sudden or unexpected effect you consider harmful or undesirable, which was specifically intended as such by its creator. Thus, the spell would sense an area affected by the alarm spell, a glyph of warding, or a mechanical pit trap, but it would not reveal a natural weakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hidden sinkhole.

This spell merely reveals that a trap is present. You don’t learn the location of each trap, but you do learn the general nature of the danger posed by a trap you sense.

Flame Blade - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A leaf of sumac; Spell Description: You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disappears, but you can evoke the blade again as a bonus action.

You can use your action to make a melee spell attack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 fire damage.

The flaming blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

Flaming Sphere - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A bit of tallow, a pinch of brimstone, and a dusting of powdered iron; Spell Description: A 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire appears in an unoccupied space of your choice within range and lasts for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

As a bonus action, you can move the sphere up to 30 feet. If you ram the sphere into a creature, that creature must make the saving throw against the sphere’s damage, and the sphere stops moving this turn.

When you move the sphere, you can direct it over barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up to 10 feet wide. The sphere ignites flammable objects not being worn or carried, and it sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

Flaming Weapon - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A weapon; Spell Description: You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell ends, the weapon becomes a magic weapon with a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls.

When you use this spell to cast magic weapon on a magic weapon, you can change the weapon’s magical bonus to a +2. For the duration, the weapon is magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks.

Gentle Repose - Classes: Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 10 days; Components: A pinch of salt and one copper piece placed on each of the corpse’s eyes, which must remain there for the duration; Spell Description: You touch a corpse or other remains. For the duration, the target is protected from decay and can’t become undead.

Gust of Wind - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (60-foot line); Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A legume seed; Spell Description: A line of strong wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide blasts from you in a direction you choose for the spell’s duration. Each creature that starts its turn in the line must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away from you in a direction following the line.

Any creature in the line must spend 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves when moving closer to you.

The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames in the area. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent chance to extinguish them.

As a bonus action on each of your turns before the spell ends, you can change the direction in which the line blasts from you.

Heat Metal - Classes: Bard, Druid; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A piece of iron and a flame; Spell Description: Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a metal weapon or a suit of heavy or medium metal armor, that you can see within range. You cause the object to glow red-hot. Any creature in physical contact with the object takes 2d8 fire damage when you cast the spell. Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your subsequent turns to cause this damage again.

If a creature is holding or wearing the object and takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if it can. If it doesn’t drop the object, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start of your next turn.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.

Invisibility - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: An eyelash encased in gum arabic; Spell Description: A creature you touch becomes invisible until the spell ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is invisible as long as it is on the target’s person. The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.

Knock - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A powder composed of metals and a dose of a rare oil worth at least 25 gp; Spell Description: Choose an object that you can see within range. The object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of manacles, a padlock, or another object that contains a mundane or magical means that prevents access.

A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, or unbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only one of them is unlocked.

If you choose a target that is held shut with arcane lock, that spell is suppressed for 10 minutes, during which time the target can be opened and shut normally.

When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible from as far away as 300 feet, emanates from the target object.

Lesser Restoration - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A diamond worth at least 100 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You touch a creature and can end either one disease or one condition afflicting it. The condition can be blinded, deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned.

Levitate - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: Either a small leather loop or a piece of golden wire bent into a cup shape with a long shank on one end; Spell Description: One creature or object of your choice that you can see within range rises vertically, up to 20 feet, and remains suspended there for the duration. The spell can levitate a target that weighs up to 500 pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a Constitution saving throw is unaffected.

The target can move only by pushing or pulling against a fixed object or surface within reach (such as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it were climbing. You can change the target’s altitude by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If you are the target, you can move up or down as part of your move. Otherwise, you can use your action to move the target, which must remain within the spell’s range.

When the spell ends, the target floats gently to the ground if it is still aloft.

Locate Object - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A forked twig; Spell Description: Describe or name an object that is familiar to you. You sense the direction to the object’s location, as long as that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the object is in motion, you know the direction of its movement.

The spell can locate a specific object known to you, as long as you have seen it up close – within 30 feet – at least once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon.

This spell can’t locate an object if any thickness of lead, even a thin sheet, blocks a direct path between you and the object.

Magic Mouth - Classes: Bard, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Until dispelled; Components: A small bit of honeycomb and jade dust worth at least 10 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You implant a message within an object in range, a message that is uttered when a trigger condition is met. Choose an object that you can see and that isn’t being worn or carried by another creature. Then speak the message, which must be 25 words or less, though it can be delivered over as long as 10 minutes. Finally, determine the circumstance that will trigger the spell to deliver your message.

When that circumstance occurs, a magical mouth appears on the object and recites the message in your voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the object you chose has a mouth or something that looks like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), the magical mouth appears there; otherwise, it opens near the object where the message was spoken.

Magic Weapon - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A melee weapon; Spell Description: You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell ends, that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls.

Melf’s Acid Arrow - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A piece of rotten fruit; Spell Description: A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a target within range and bursts in a spray of acid. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 4d4 acid damage immediately and 2d4 acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow splashes the target with acid for half as much of the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage (both initial and later) increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.

Misty Step - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A sprinkle of stardust; Spell Description: Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space that you can see.

Moonbeam - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: Several seeds of any moonseed plant and a piece of opalescent feldspar; Spell Description: A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a 5-foot radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range. Until the spell ends, dim light fills the cylinder.

When a creature enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it is engulfed in ghostly flames that cause searing pain, and it must make a Constitution saving throw. It takes 2d10 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

A shapechanger makes its saving throw with disadvantage. If it fails, it also instantly reverts to its original form and can’t assume a different form until it leaves the spell’s light.

On each of your turns after you cast this spell, you can use an action to move the beam 60 feet in any direction.

Nystul’s Magic Aura - Classes: Bard, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 24 hours; Components: A small square of silk; Spell Description: You place an illusion on a creature or an object you touch so that divination spells reveal false information about it. The target can be a willing creature or an object that isn’t being carried or worn by another creature.

When you cast the spell, choose one or both of the following effects. The effect lasts for the duration. If you cast this spell on the same creature or object every day for 30 days, placing the same effect on it each time, the illusion lasts until it is dispelled.

False Aura. You change the way the target appears to spells and magical effects that detect magical auras. You can make a nonmagical object appear magical, a magical object appear nonmagical, or change the object’s magical aura so that it appears to belong to a specific school of magic that you choose. When you use this effect, you can have the aura appear to belong to a school of magic of your choice that you know.

Mask. You change the way the target appears to spells and magical effects that detect creature types, such as a paladin’s Divine Sense or the trigger of a symbol spell. You choose a creature type and other spells and magical effects treat the target as if it were a creature of that type or of that alignment.

Phantom Steed - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A bit of horse hair; Spell Description: A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice within range. You decide the creature’s appearance, but it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away from the steed.

For the duration, you or a creature you choose can ride the steed. The creature uses the statistics for a riding horse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and can travel 10 miles in an hour, or 13 miles at a fast pace. When the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends if you use an action to dismiss it or if the steed takes any damage.

Protection from Poison - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A few thorns, or a sprig of mistletoe; Spell Description: You touch a creature. If it is poisoned, you neutralize the poison. If more than one poison afflicts the target, you neutralize one poison that you know is present, or you neutralize one at random.

For the duration, the target has advantage on saving throws against being poisoned, and it has resistance to poison damage.

Pyrotechnics - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A bit of phosphorus; Spell Description: Choose an area of flames that you can see and that can fit within a 5-foot cube within range. You can extinguish the fire in that area, and you create either fireworks or smoke when you do so.

Quaal’s Feather Token - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Permanent; Components: A tiny strip of white cloth; Spell Description: You touch a small item, turning it into a token that you or a creature you give the token to can use to store a spell. The token is no larger than a coin, is made of wood, and has impressed upon it a representation of the item’s original form. A token can store only one spell at a time. When found, it contains the stored spell, with no need for you to remain in contact with the item, allowing the possessor to cast the spell as if they were a spellcaster with access to the spell. If the item is used to cast the spell, it disappears from existence. If the spell is not cast, the token reverts to its nonmagical form once the spell’s duration expires.

Ray of Enfeeblement - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: An eyelash encased in gum arabic; Spell Description: A black beam of enervating energy springs from your finger toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target deals only half damage with weapon attacks that use Strength until the spell ends.

At the end of each of the target’s turns, it can make a Constitution saving throw against the spell. On a success, the spell ends.

Rope Trick - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: Powdered corn extract and a twisted loop of parchment; Spell Description: You touch a length of rope that is up to 60 feet long. One end of the rope then rises into the air until the whole rope hangs perpendicular to the ground. At the upper end of the rope, an invisible entrance opens to an extradimensional space that lasts until the spell ends.

The extradimensional space can be reached by climbing to the top of the rope. The space can hold as many as eight Medium or smaller creatures. The rope can be pulled into the space, making the rope disappear from view outside the space.

Attacks and spells can’t cross through the entrance into or out of the extradimensional space, but those inside can see out of it as if through a 3-foot-by-5-foot window centered on the rope.

Anything inside the extradimensional space drops out when the spell ends.

Scorching Ray - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You create three rays of fire and fling them at targets within range. You can hurl them at one target or several. Make a ranged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes 2d6 fire damage.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you create one additional ray for each slot level above 2nd.

See Invisibility - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 hour; Components: An eyelash encased in gum arabic; Spell Description: For the duration, you see invisible creatures and objects as if they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Ethereal creatures and objects appear ghostly and translucent.

Silence - Classes: Bard, Cleric; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: For the duration, no sound can be created within or pass through a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range. Any creature or object entirely inside the sphere is immune to thunder damage, and creatures are deafened while entirely inside it. Casting a spell that includes a verbal component is impossible there.

Snilloc’s Snowball Swarm - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A piece of ice or a small white rock chip; Spell Description: A 5-foot-radius sphere of ice appears at a point you choose within range and explodes with a blast of cold. Each creature in the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 3d6 cold damage, and it is restrained for 1 round. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t restrained. If a creature is restrained by this spell, the creature can use an action to make a Strength or Dexterity saving throw (its choice) to end the restrained condition on itself.

The cold damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

Suggestion - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) and magically influence a creature you can see within range that can hear and understand you. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously harmful act automatically negates the effect of the spell.

The suggested course of action can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do. You can also specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you might suggest that a knight give her warhorse to the first beggar she meets. If the condition isn’t met before the spell expires, the activity isn’t performed.

If you or any of your companions damage the target, the spell ends.

Web - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: Verbal, Somatic, Material; Spell Description: You conjure a mass of thick, sticky webbing at a point of your choice within range. The webs fill a 20-foot cube from that point for the duration. The webs are difficult terrain and lightly obscure their area.

If the webs aren’t anchored between two solid masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or ceiling, the conjured web collapses on itself, and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.

Each creature that starts its turn in the webs or that enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained as long as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free.

A creature restrained by the webs can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer restrained.

The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube of webs exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.

Zone of Truth - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Paladin; Spell Level: 2; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 10 minutes; Components: Verbal, Somatic; Spell Description: You create a magical zone that guards against deception in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range. Until the spell ends, a creature that enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature can’t speak a deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether each creature succeeds or fails on its saving throw.

An affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be evasive in its answers as long as it remains within the boundaries of the truth.

Animate Dead - Classes: Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 10 feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: a drop of blood, a piece of flesh, and a pinch of bone dust; Spell Description: This spell creates an undead servant. Choose a pile of bones or a corpse of a Medium or Small humanoid within range. Your spell imbues the target with a foul mimicry of life, raising it as an undead creature. The target becomes a skeleton if you chose bones or a zombie if you chose a corpse (the DM has the creature’s game statistics).

On each of your turns, you can use a bonus action to mentally command any creature you made with this spell if the creature is within 60 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can command any or all of them at the same time, issuing the same command to each one). You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a general command, such as to guard a particular chamber or corridor. If you issue no commands, the creature only defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete.

The creature is under your control for 24 hours, after which it stops obeying any command you’ve given it. To maintain the control of the creature for another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature again before the current 24-hour period ends. This use of the spell reasserts your control over up to four creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than animating a new one.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you animate or reassert control over two additional undead creatures for each slot level above 3rd. Each of the creatures must come from a different corpse or pile of bones.

Aura of Vitality - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Paladin; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot radius); Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Healing energy radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves with you, centered on you. You can use a bonus action to cause one creature in the aura (including you) to regain 2d6 hit points.

Beacon of Hope - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: This spell bestows hope and vitality. Choose any number of creatures within range. For the duration, each target has advantage on Wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and regains the maximum number of hit points possible from any healing.

Bestow Curse - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You touch a creature, and that creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the duration of the spell. When you cast this spell, choose the nature of the curse from the following options:

Choose one ability score. While cursed, the target has disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws made with that ability score.
While cursed, the target has disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
While cursed, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw at the start of each of its turns. If it fails, it wastes its action that turn doing nothing.
While the target is cursed, your attacks and spells deal an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the target.
A Remove Curse spell ends this effect. At the DM’s option, you may choose an alternative curse effect, but it should be no more powerful than those described above. The DM has the final say on such a curse’s effect.

At Higher Levels: If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to 10 minutes. If you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the duration is 8 hours. If you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration is 24 hours. If you use a 9th level spell slot, the spell lasts until it is dispelled. Using a spell slot of 5th level or higher grants a duration that doesn’t require concentration.

Blinding Smite - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack during this spell’s duration, your weapon flares with a bright light, and the attack deals an extra 3d8 radiant damage to the target. Additionally, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the spell ends.

A creature blinded by this spell makes another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.

Blink - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Roll a d20 at the end of each of your turns for the duration of the spell. On a roll of 11 or higher, you vanish from your current plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal Plane (the spell fails and the casting is wasted if you were already on that plane).

At the start of your next turn, and when the spell ends if you are on the Ethereal Plane, you return to an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the space you vanished from. If no unoccupied space is available within that range, you appear in the nearest unoccupied space (chosen at random if more than one space is equally near). You can dismiss this spell as an action.

While on the Ethereal Plane, you can see and hear the plane you originated from, which is cast in shades of gray, and you can’t see anything more than 60 feet away. You can only affect and be affected by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane. Creatures that aren’t there can’t perceive you or interact with you, unless they have the ability to do so.

Call Lightning - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: A storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius, centered on a point you can see 100 feet directly above you. The spell fails if you can’t see a point in the air where the storm cloud could appear (for example, if you are in a room that can’t accommodate the cloud).

When you cast the spell, choose a point you can see within range. A bolt of lightning flashes down from the cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet of that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d10 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use your action to call down lightning in this way again, targeting the same point or a different one.

Counterspell - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Reaction; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: S; Spell Description: You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process of casting a spell. If the creature is casting a spell of 3rd level or lower, its spell fails and has no effect. If it is casting a spell of 4th level or higher, make an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, the creature’s spell fails and has no effect.

Crusader's Mantle - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot radius); Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Holy power radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot radius, awakening boldness in friendly creatures. Until the spell ends, the aura moves with you, centered on you. While in the aura, each non-hostile creature in the aura (including you) deals an extra 1d4 radiant damage when it hits with a weapon attack.

Daylight - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: A 60-foot-radius sphere of light spreads out from a point you choose within range. The sphere is bright light and sheds dim light for an additional 60 feet.

If you chose a point on an object you are holding or one that isn’t being worn or carried, the light shines from the object with and moves with it. Completely covering the affected object with an opaque object, such as a bowl or a helm, blocks the light.

If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of darkness created by a spell of 3rd level or lower, the spell that created the darkness is dispelled.

Dispel Magic - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: Choose any creature, object, or magical effect within range. Any spell of 3rd level or lower on the target ends. For each spell of 4th level or higher on the target, make an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a successful check, the spell ends.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you automatically end the effects of a spell on the target if the spell’s level is equal to or less than the level of the spell slot you used.

Elemental Weapon - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic weapon. Choose one of the following damage types: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder. For the duration, the weapon has a +1 bonus to attack rolls and deals an extra 1d4 damage of the chosen type when it hits.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th or 6th level, the bonus to attack rolls increases to +2 and the extra damage increases to 2d4. When you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the bonus increases to +3 and the extra damage increases to 3d4.

Enemies Abound - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You reach into the mind of one creature you can see and force it to make an Intelligence saving throw. A creature automatically succeeds if it is immune to being frightened. On a failed save, the target loses the ability to distinguish friend from foe, regarding all creatures it can see as enemies until the spell ends. Each time the target takes damage, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.

Whenever the affected creature chooses another creature as a target, it must choose the target at random from among the creatures it can see within range of the attack, spell, or other ability it’s using. If an enemy provokes an opportunity attack from the affected creature, the creature must make that attack if it is able to.

Erupting Earth - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: a piece of obsidian; Spell Description: Choose a point you can see on the ground within range. A fountain of churned earth and stone erupts in a 20-foot cube centered on that point. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d12 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Additionally, the ground in that area becomes difficult terrain until cleared away. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 2nd.

Fast Friends - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: When you cast this spell, choose one humanoid within range that can see and hear you, and that can understand you. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become charmed by you for the duration. While the creature is charmed in this way, it undertakes to perform any services or activities you ask of it in a friendly manner, to the best of its ability.

You can set the creature new tasks when a previous task is completed, or if you decide to end its current task. If the service or activity might cause harm to the creature, or if it conflicts with the creature's normal activities and desires, the creature can make another Wisdom saving throw to try to end the effect. This save is made with advantage if you or your companions are fighting the creature. If the activity would result in certain death for the creature, the spell ends.

When the spell ends, the creature knows it was charmed by you.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.

Fear - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot cone); Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a white feather or the heart of a hen; Spell Description: You project a phantasmal image of a creature’s worst fears. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding and become frightened for the duration.

While frightened by this spell, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn’t have line of sight to you, the creature can make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell ends for that creature.

Feign Death - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: a pinch of graveyard dirt; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature and put it into a cataleptic state that is indistinguishable from death.

For the spell’s duration, or until you use an action to touch the target and dismiss the spell, the target appears dead to all outward inspection and to spells used to determine the target’s status. The target is blinded and incapacitated, and its speed drops to 0. The target has resistance to all damage except psychic damage. If the target is diseased or poisoned when you cast the spell, or becomes diseased or poisoned while under the spell’s effect, the disease and poison have no effect until the spell ends.

Fireball - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 150 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: a tiny ball of bat guano and sulfur; Spell Description: A bright streak flashes from your pointing finger to a point you choose within range then blossoms with a low roar into an explosion of flame. Each creature in a 20-foot radius must make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.

Flame Arrows - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: You touch a quiver containing arrows or bolts. When a target is hit by a ranged weapon attack using a piece of ammunition drawn from the quiver, the target takes an extra 1d6 fire damage. The spell’s magic ends on the piece of ammunition when it hits or misses, and the spell ends when twelve pieces of ammunition have been drawn from the quiver.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the number of pieces of ammunition you can affect with this spell increases by two for each slot level above 3rd.

Flame Stride (UA) - Classes: Artificer, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The billowing flames of a dragon cover your feet, granting you explosive speed. For the duration, your speed increases by 20 feet and moving doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. When you move within 5 feet of a creature or object that isn’t being worn or carried, it takes 1d6 fire damage from your trail of heat. A creature or object can take this damage only once during a turn.
At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, increase your speed by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 3rd. Additionally, the spell deals an additional 1d6 fire damage for each slot level above 3rd.

Fly - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: a wing feather from any bird; Spell Description: You touch a willing creature. The target gains a flying speed of 60 feet for the duration. When the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft, unless it can stop the fall.
At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.

Galder's Tower - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 10 Minutes; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 24 hours; Components: a fragment of stone, wood, or other building material; Spell Description: You conjure a two-story tower made of stone, wood, or similar suitably sturdy materials. The tower can be round or square in shape. Each level of the tower is 10 feet tall and has an area of up to 100 square feet. Access between levels consists of a simple ladder and hatch. Each level takes one of the following forms, chosen by you when you cast the spell:
A bedroom with a bed, chairs, chest, and magical fireplace
A study with desks, books, bookshelves, parchments, ink, and ink pens
A dining space with a table, chairs, magical fireplace, containers, and cooking utensils
A lounge with couches, armchairs, side tables, and footstools
A washroom with toilets, washtubs, a magical brazier, and sauna benches
An observatory with a telescope and maps of the night sky
An unfurnished, empty room
The interior of the tower is warm and dry, regardless of conditions outside. Any equipment or furnishings conjured with the tower dissipate into smoke if removed from it. At the end of the spell’s duration, all creatures and objects within the tower that were not created by the spell appear safely outside on the ground, and all traces of the tower and its furnishings disappear.

You can cast this spell again while it is active to maintain the tower’s existence for another 24 hours. You can create a permanent tower by casting this spell in the same location and with the same configuration every day for one year.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the tower can have one additional story for each slot level beyond 3rd.

Gaseous Form - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: a bit of gauze and a wisp of smoke; Spell Description: You transform a willing creature you touch, along with everything it’s wearing and carrying, into a misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends if the creature drops to 0 hit points. An incorporeal creature isn’t affected.
While in this form, the target’s only method of movement is a flying speed of 10 feet. The target can enter and occupy the space of another creature. The target has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through small holes, narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target can’t fall and remains hovering in the air even when stunned or otherwise incapacitated.

While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can’t talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can’t be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. The target can’t attack or cast spells.

Glyph of Warding - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Hour; Range: Touch; Duration: Until dispelled or triggered; Components: incense and powdered diamond worth at least 200 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: When you cast this spell, you inscribe a glyph that harms other creatures, either upon a surface (such as a table or a section of floor or wall) or within an object that can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest) to conceal the glyph.
If you choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.

The glyph is nearly invisible and requires a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to be found.

You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, or manipulating the object on which the glyph is inscribed. For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most common triggers include opening that object, approaching within a certain distance of the object, or seeing or reading the glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.

You can further refine the trigger so the spell activates only under certain circumstances or according to physical characteristics (such as height or weight), creature kind (for example, the ward could be set to affect aberrations or drow), or alignment. You can also set conditions for creatures that don’t trigger the glyph, such as those who say a certain password.

When you inscribe the glyph, choose explosive runes or a spell glyph.

Explosive Runes: When triggered, the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on the glyph. The sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 5d8 acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage on a failed saving throw (your choice when you create the glyph), or half as much damage on a successful one.

Spell Glyph: You can store a prepared spell of 3rd level or lower in the glyph by casting it as part of creating the glyph. The spell must target a single creature or an area. The spell being stored has no immediate effect when cast in this way. When the glyph is triggered, the stored spell is cast. If the spell has a target, it targets the creature that triggered the glyph. If the spell affects an area, the area is centered on that creature. If the spell summons hostile creatures or creates harmful objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires concentration, it lasts until the end of its full duration.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage of an explosive runes glyph increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd. If you create a spell glyph, you can store any spell of up to the same level as the slot you use for the glyph of warding.

Haste - Classes: Artificer, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a shaving of licorice root; Spell Description: Choose a willing creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, the target’s speed is doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to AC, it has advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains an additional action on each of its turns. That action can be used only to take the Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object action.
When the spell ends, the target can’t move or take actions until after its next turn, as a wave of lethargy sweeps over it.

Hunger Of Hadar - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 150 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a pickled octopus tentacle; Spell Description: You open a gateway to the dark between the stars, a region infested with unknown horrors. A 20-foot-radius sphere of blackness and bitter cold appears, centered on a point with range and lasting for the duration. This void is filled with a cacophony of soft whispers and slurping noises that can be heard up to 30 feet away. No light, magical or otherwise, can illuminate the area, and creatures fully within the area are blinded.

The void creates a warp in the fabric of space, and the area is difficult terrain. Any creature that starts its turn in the area takes 2d6 cold damage. Any creature that ends its turn in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 acid damage as milky, otherworldly tentacles rub against it.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage of Hunger Of Hadar increases.

Hypnotic Pattern - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a glowing stick of incense or a crystal vial filled with phosphorescent material; Spell Description: You create a twisting pattern of colors that weaves through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range. The pattern appears for a moment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who sees the pattern must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed for the duration. While charmed by this spell, the creature is incapacitated and has a speed of 0.

The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes any damage or if someone else uses an action to shake the creature out of its stupor.

Incite Greed - Classes: Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a gem worth at least 50 gp; Spell Description: When you cast this spell, you present the gem used as the material component and choose any number of creatures within range that can see you. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you until the spell ends, or until you or your companions do anything harmful to it. While charmed in this way, a creature can do nothing but use its movement to approach you in a safe manner. While an affected creature is within 5 feet of you, it cannot move but simply stares greedily at the gem you present.

At the end of each of its turns, an affected target can make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, this effect ends for that target.

Intellect Fortress - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: For the duration, you or one willing creature you can see within range has resistance to psychic damage, as well as advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.

Invisibility To Cameras (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 10 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a scrap of black paper; Spell Description: Four creatures of your choice within range become undetectable to electronic sensors and cameras for the duration of the spell. Anything a target is wearing or carrying is likewise undetectable as long as it is on the target’s person. The targets remain visible to vision.

Leomund's Tiny Hut - Classes: Bard, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Self (10-foot radius hemisphere); Duration: 8 hours; Components: a small crystal bead; Spell Description: A 10-foot-radius immobile dome of force springs into existence around and above you and remains stationary for the duration. The spell ends if you leave its area.

Nine creatures of Medium size or smaller can fit inside the dome with you. The spell fails if its area includes a larger creature or more than nine creatures. Creatures and objects within the dome when you cast this spell can move through it freely. All other creatures and objects are barred from passing through it. Spells and other magical effects can’t extend through the dome or be cast through it. The atmosphere inside the space is comfortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside.

Until the spell ends, you can command the interior to become dimly lit or dark. The dome is opaque from the outside, of any color you choose, but it is transparent from the inside.

Life Transference - Classes: Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You sacrifice some of your health to mend another creature's injuries. You take 4d8 necrotic damage, which can't be reduced in any way, and one creature of your choice that you can see within range regains a number of hit points equal to twice the necrotic damage you take.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.

Lightning Arrow - Classes: Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The next time you make a ranged weapon attack during the spell's duration, the weapon's ammunition, or the weapon itself if it's a thrown weapon, transforms into a bolt of lightning. Make the attack roll as normal. The target takes 4d8 lightning damage on a hit, or half as much damage on a miss, instead of the weapon's normal damage.

Whether you hit or miss, each creature within 10 feet of the target must make a Dexterity saving throw. Each of these creatures takes 2d8 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

The piece of ammunition or weapon then returns to its normal form.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage for both effects of the spell increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.

Lightning Bolt - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (100-foot line); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: a bit of fur and a rod of amber, crystal, or glass; Spell Description: A stroke of lightning forming a line of 100 feet long and 5 feet wide blasts out from you in a direction you choose. Each creature in the line must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

The lightning ignites flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.

Magic Circle - Classes: Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 10 feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: holy water or powdered silver and iron worth at least 100 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder of magical energy centered on a point on the ground that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear wherever the cylinder intersects with the floor or other surface.

Choose one or more of the following types of creatures: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, or undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the following ways:

The creature can't willingly enter the cylinder by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it must first succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against targets within the cylinder.
Targets within the cylinder can't be charmed, frightened, or possessed by the creature.
When you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its magic to operate in the reverse direction, preventing a creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder and protecting targets outside it.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration increases by 1 hour for each slot level above 3rd.

Major Image - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: a bit of fleece; Spell Description: You create the image of an object, a creature, or some other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a 20-foot cube. The image appears at a spot that you can see within range and lasts for the duration. It seems completely real, including sounds, smells, and temperature appropriate to the thing depicted. You can't create sufficient heat or cold to cause damage, a sound loud enough to deal thunder damage or deafen a creature, or a smell that might sicken a creature (like a troglodyte's stench).

As long as you are within range of the illusion, you can use your action to cause the image to move to any other spot within range. As the image changes location, you can alter its appearance so that its movements appear natural for the image. For example, if you create an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to make different sounds at different times, even making it carry on a conversation, for example.

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion because things can pass through it. A creature that uses its action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and its other sensory qualities become faint to the creature.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the spell lasts until dispelled, without requiring your concentration. In this form, it is sometimes considered a different spell, known as Permanent Image.

Mass Healing Word - Classes: Bard, Cleric; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: As you call out words of restoration, up to six creatures of your choice that you can see within range regain hit points equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the healing increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 3rd.

Meld into Stone - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: None; Spell Description: You step into a stone object or surface large enough to fully contain your body, melding yourself and all the equipment you carry with the stone for the duration. Using your movement, you step into the stone at a point you can touch. Nothing of your presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by nonmagical senses.

While merged with the stone, you can’t see what occurs outside it, and any Wisdom (Perception) checks you make to hear sounds outside it are made with disadvantage. You remain aware of the passage of time and can cast spells on yourself while merged in the stone. You can use your movement to leave the stone where you entered it, which ends the spell. You otherwise can’t move.

Minor physical damage to the stone doesn’t harm you, but its partial destruction or a change in its shape (to the extent that you no longer fit within it) expels you and deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage to you. The stone’s complete destruction (or transmutation into a different substance) expels you and deals 50 bludgeoning damage to you. If expelled, you fall prone in an unoccupied space closest to where you first entered.

Melf's Minute Meteors - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A bead made of niter, sulfur, and pine tar; Spell Description: You create six tiny meteors in your space. They float in the air and orbit you for the spell’s duration. When you cast the spell — and as a bonus action on each of your turns thereafter — you can expend one or two of the meteors, sending them streaking toward a point or points you choose within 120 feet of you. Once a meteor reaches its destination or impacts against a solid surface, the meteor explodes. Each creature within 5 feet of the point where the meteor explodes must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the number of meteors created increases by two for each slot level above 3rd.

Motivational Speech - Classes: Bard, Cleric; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Hour; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: Choose up to five creatures within range that can hear you. For the duration, each affected creature gains 5 temporary hit points and has advantage on Wisdom saving throws. If an affected creature is hit by an attack, it has advantage on the next attack roll it makes. Once an affected creature loses the temporary hit points granted by this spell, the spell ends for that creature.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the temporary hit points increase by 5 for each slot level above 3rd.

Nondetection - Classes: Bard, Ranger, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: A pinch of diamond dust worth 25 gp sprinkled over the target, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: For the duration, you hide a target that you touch from divination magic. The target can be a willing creature or a place or an object no larger than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can’t be targeted by any divination magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors.

Phantom Steed - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice within range. You decide the creature’s appearance, but it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away from the steed.

For the duration, you or a creature you choose can ride the steed. The creature uses the statistics for a riding horse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and can travel 10 miles in an hour, or 13 miles at a fast pace. When the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends if you use an action to dismiss it or if the steed takes any damage.

Plant Growth - Classes: Bard, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 150 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: This spell channels vitality into plants within a specific area. There are two possible uses for the spell, granting either immediate or long-term benefits.

If you cast this spell using 1 action, choose a point within range. All normal plants in a 100-foot radius centered on that point become thick and overgrown. A creature moving through the area must spend 4 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves.

You can exclude one or more areas of any size within the spell’s area from being affected.

If you cast this spell over 8 hours, you enrich the land. All plants in a half-mile radius centered on a point within range become enriched for 1 year. The plants yield twice the normal amount of food when harvested.

Protection from Ballistics (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A shell casing; Spell Description: This spell enchants the flesh of the target against the impact of bullets. Until the spell ends, the target has resistance to nonmagical ballistic damage.

Protection from Energy - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description: For the duration, the willing creature you touch has resistance to one damage type of your choice: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder.

Psionic Blast (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot cone); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: You unleash a destructive wave of mental power in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes 5d8 force damage, is pushed 20 feet directly away from you, and is knocked prone. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage and isn’t pushed or knocked prone.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.

Pulse Wave - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot cone); Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A shell casing; Spell Description: You create intense pressure, unleash it in a 30-foot cone, and decide whether the pressure pulls or pushes creatures and objects. Each creature in that cone must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 6d6 force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. And every creature that fails the save is either pulled 15 feet toward you or pushed 15 feet away from you, depending on the choice you made for the spell.

In addition, unsecured objects that are completely within the cone are likewise pulled or pushed 15 feet.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 and the distance pulled or pushed increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 3rd.

Remove Curse - Classes: Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description: At your touch, all curses affecting one creature or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner’s attunement to the object so it can be removed or discarded.

Revivify - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Diamonds worth 300 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You touch a creature that has died within the last minute. That creature returns to life with 1 hit point. This spell can’t return to life a creature that has died of old age, nor can it restore any missing body parts.

Sending - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Unlimited; Duration: 1 round; Components: A short piece of fine copper wire; Spell Description: You send a short message of twenty-five words or less to a creature with which you are familiar. The creature hears the message in its mind, recognizes you as the sender if it knows you, and can answer in a like manner immediately. The spell enables creatures with Intelligence scores of at least 1 to understand the meaning of your message.

You can send the message across any distance and even to other planes of existence, but if the target is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent chance that the message doesn’t arrive.

Sleet Storm - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A pinch of dust and a few drops of water; Spell Description: Until the spell ends, freezing rain and sleet fall in a 20-foot-tall cylinder with a 40-foot radius centered on a point you choose within range. The area is heavily obscured, and exposed flames in the area are doused.

The ground in the area is covered with slick ice, making it difficult terrain. When a creature enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, it falls prone.

If a creature is concentrating in the spell’s area, the creature must make a successful Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC or lose concentration.

Slow - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A drop of molasses; Spell Description: You alter time around up to six creatures of your choice in a 40-foot cube within range. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be affected by this spell for the duration.

An affected target’s speed is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can’t use reactions. On its turn, it can use either an action or a bonus action, not both. Regardless of the creature’s abilities or magic items, it can’t make more than one melee or ranged attack during its turn.

If the creature attempts to cast a spell with a casting time of 1 action, roll a d20. On an 11 or higher, the spell doesn’t take effect until the creature’s next turn, and the creature must use its action on that turn to complete the spell. If it can’t, the spell is wasted.

A creature affected by this spell makes another Wisdom saving throw at the end of its turn. On a successful save, the effect ends for it.

Speak with Dead - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 10 Feet; Duration: 10 minutes; Components: Burning incense; Spell Description: You grant the semblance of life and intelligence to a corpse of your choice within range, allowing it to answer the questions you pose. The corpse must still have a mouth and can’t be undead. The spell fails if the corpse was the target of this spell within the last 10 days.

Until the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to five questions. The corpse knows only what it knew in life, including the languages it knew. Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are hostile to it or it recognizes you as an enemy. This spell doesn’t return the creature’s soul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the corpse can’t learn new information, doesn’t comprehend anything that has happened since it died, and can’t speculate about future events.

Speak with Plants - Classes: Bard, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot radius); Duration: 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: You imbue plants within 30 feet of you with limited sentience and animation, giving them the ability to communicate with you and follow your simple commands. You can question plants about events in the spell’s area within the past day, gaining information about creatures that have passed, weather, and other circumstances.

You can also turn difficult terrain caused by plant growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present into difficult terrain that lasts for the duration, causing vines and branches to hinder pursuers, for example.

Plants might be able to perform other tasks on your behalf, at the DM’s discretion. The spell doesn’t enable plants to uproot themselves and move about, but they can freely move branches, tendrils, and stalks.

If a plant creature is in the area, you can communicate with it as if you shared a common language, but you gain no magical ability to influence it.

This spell can cause the plants created by the entangle spell to release a restrained creature.

Spirit Guardians - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (15-foot radius); Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: A holy symbol; Spell Description: You call forth spirits to protect you. They flit around you to a distance of 15 feet for the duration. If you are good or neutral, their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.

When you cast this spell, you can designate any number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by it. An affected creature’s speed is halved in the area, and when the creature enters the area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 radiant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8 necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.

Spirit Shroud - Classes: Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: You call forth spirits of the dead, which flit around you for the spell’s duration. The spirits are intangible and invulnerable.

Until the spell ends, any attack you make deals 1d8 extra damage when you hit a creature within 10 feet of you. This damage is radiant, necrotic, or cold (your choice when you cast the spell). Any creature that takes this damage can’t regain hit points until the start of your next turn.

In addition, any creature of your choice that you can see that starts its turn within 10 feet of you has its speed reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for every two slot levels above 3rd.

Stinking Cloud - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A rotten egg or several skunk cabbage leaves; Spell Description: You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating gas centered on a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners, and its area is heavily obscured. The cloud lingers in the air for the duration.

Each creature that is completely within the cloud at the start of its turn must make a Constitution saving throw against poison. On a failed save, the creature spends its action that turn retching and reeling. Creatures that don’t need to breathe or are immune to poison automatically succeed on this saving throw.

A moderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses the cloud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour) disperses it after 1 round.

Summon Fey - Classes: Druid, Ranger, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A gilded flower worth at least 300 gp; Spell Description: You call forth a fey spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. This corporeal form uses the Fey Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose a mood: Fuming, Mirthful, or Tricksy. The creature resembles a fey creature of your choice marked by the chosen mood, which determines one of the traits in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your companions. In combat, the creature shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don’t issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its move to avoid danger.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, use the higher level wherever the spell’s level appears in the stat block.

Tidal Wave - Classes: Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: a drop of water; Spell Description: You conjure up a wave of water that crashes down on an area within range. The area can be up to 30 feet long, up to 10 feet wide, and up to 10 feet tall. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 4d8 bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone. On a success, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't knocked prone. The water then spreads out across the ground in all directions, extinguishing unprotected flames in its area and within 30 feet of it.

Tiny Servant - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 hours; Components: None; Spell Description: You touch one Tiny, nonmagical object that isn't attached to another object or a surface and isn't being carried by another creature. The target animates and sprouts little arms and legs, becoming a creature under your control until the spell ends or the creature drops to 0 hit points. See the stat block for its statistics.

As a bonus action, you can mentally command the creature if it is within 120 feet of you. (If you control multiple creatures with this spell, you can command any or all of them at the same time, issuing the same command to each one.) You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a simple, general command, such as to fetch a key, stand watch, or stack some books. If you issue no commands, the servant does nothing other than defend itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the servant continues to follow that order until its task is complete.

Tongues - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: a small clay model of a ziggurat; Spell Description: This spell grants the creature you touch the ability to understand any spoken language it hears. Moreover, when the target speaks, any creature that knows at least one language and can hear the target understands what it says.

Vampiric Touch - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 necrotic damage, and you regain hit points equal to half the amount of necrotic damage dealt. Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again on each of your turns as an action.

Wall of Sand - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: a handful of sand; Spell Description: You conjure up a wall of swirling sand on the ground at a point you can see within range. You can make the wall up to 30 feet long, 10 feet high, and 10 feet thick, and it vanishes when the spell ends. It blocks line of sight but not movement. A creature is blinded while in the wall's space and must spend 3 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves there.

Wall of Water - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: a drop of water; Spell Description: You conjure up a wall of water on the ground at a point you can see within range. You can make the wall up to 30 feet long, 10 feet high, and 1 foot thick, or you can make a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall vanishes when the spell ends. The wall's space is difficult terrain.

Any ranged weapon attack that enters the wall's space has disadvantage on the attack roll, and fire damage is halved if the fire effect passes through the wall to reach its target. Spells that deal cold damage that pass through the wall cause the area of the wall they pass through to freeze solid (at least a 5-foot square section is frozen). Each 5-foot-square frozen section has AC 5 and 15 hit points. Reducing a frozen section to 0 hit points destroys it. When a section is destroyed, the wall's water doesn't fill it.

Water Breathing - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 24 hours; Components: a short reed or piece of straw; Spell Description: This spell grants up to ten willing creatures you can see within range the ability to breathe underwater until the spell ends. Affected creatures also retain their normal mode of respiration.

Water Walk - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 1 hour; Components: a piece of cork; Spell Description: This spell grants the ability to move across any liquid surface – such as water, acid, mud, snow, quicksand, or lava – as if it were harmless solid ground (creatures crossing molten lava can still take damage from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures you can see within range gain this ability for the duration.

If you target a creature submerged in a liquid, the spell carries the target to the surface of the liquid at a rate of 60 feet per round.

Wind Wall - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 3; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a tiny fan and a feather of exotic origin; Spell Description: A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick. You can shape the wall in any way you choose so long as it makes one continuous path along the ground. The wall lasts for the duration.

When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Strength saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or objects can't pass through the wall. Loose, lightweight materials brought into the wall fly upward. Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles launched at targets behind the wall are deflected upward and automatically miss. (Boulders hurled by giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are unaffected.)

Aura of Life - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot radius); Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: You emit an aura of life in a 30-foot radius around you. Affected creatures, including you, can't have their hit points reduced below 1, and death saving throws are made with advantage. Moreover, nonhostile, living creatures in the aura can't become frightened, and the aura dispels any magical fear.

Aura of Purity - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self (30-foot radius); Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description: You project an aura of divine purity. A 30-foot radius of bright, purifying energy extends from you. Hostile creatures in the aura have disadvantage on saving throws against diseases and the poisoned condition. Nonhostile, living creatures in the aura are immune to diseases and the poisoned condition, and they're resistant to poison damage.

Banishment - Classes: Cleric, Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: an item distasteful to the target; Spell Description: You attempt to send one creature that you can see within range to another plane of existence. The target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be banished. If the target is native to the plane you're on, you banish the target to a harmless demiplane. While there, the target is incapacitated. The target remains there until the spell ends, at which point the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.

If the target is native to a different plane of existence than the one you're on, the target is banished with a faint popping noise, returning to its home plane. If the spell ends before 1 minute has passed, the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied. Otherwise, the target doesn't return.

Blight - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: a bit of sponge; Spell Description: Necromantic energy washes over a creature of your choice that you can see within range, draining moisture and vitality from it. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. The target takes 8d8 necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. The spell's damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (9d8), 11th level (10d8), and 17th level (11d8).

If you target a plant creature or a magical plant, it makes the saving throw with disadvantage, and the spell deals maximum damage to it.

Compulsion - Classes: Bard, Paladin; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description: Creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear you must make a Wisdom saving throw. A target automatically succeeds on this saving throw if it can't be charmed. On a failed save, a target is affected by this spell. Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to designate a direction that is horizontal to you. Each affected target must use as much of its movement as possible to move in that direction on its next turn. It can take its action before it moves. After moving in this way, it can make another Wisdom saving throw to try to end the effect. A target isn't compelled to move into an obviously deadly hazard, such as a fire or a pit, but it will provoke opportunity attacks to move in the designated direction.

Confusion - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a pinch of umber hulk blood; Spell Description: This spell assaults and twists creatures' minds, spawning delusions and provoking uncontrolled action. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw when you cast this spell or be affected by it.

An affected target can't take reactions and must roll a d10 at the start of its turn to determine its behavior for that turn.

Conjure Minor Elementals - Classes: Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 90 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: a tiny bag and a small candle; Spell Description: You summon elementals that appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. You choose one the following options for what appears:

One elemental of challenge rating 2 or lower.
Two elementals of challenge rating 1 or lower.
Four elementals of challenge rating 1/2 or lower.
Eight elementals of challenge rating 1/4 or lower.
An elemental summoned by this spell disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.

Control Water - Classes: Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 300 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: a drop of water and a pinch of dust; Spell Description: Until the spell ends, you control any freestanding water inside an area you choose that is a cube up to 100 feet on a side. You can choose from any of the following effects when you cast this spell. As an action on your turn, you can repeat the same effect or choose a different one.

Flood: You cause the water level of all standing water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If the area includes a shore, the flooding water spills over onto dry land.

Part Water: You cause water in the area to move apart and create a trench. The trench extends across the spell's area, and the separated water forms a wall to either side.

Redirect Flow: You cause flowing water in the area to move in a direction you choose, even if the water has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as you direct it, but once it moves beyond the spell's area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain conditions.

Whirlpool: This effect requires a body of water at least 50 feet square and 25 feet deep. You cause a whirlpool to form in the center of the area. The whirlpool forms a vortex that is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature or object in the water and within 25 feet of the vortex is pulled 10 feet toward it. A creature can swim away from the vortex by making a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC. When a creature enters the vortex for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and is caught in the vortex until the spell ends. On a successful save, the creature takes half damage, and isn't caught in the vortex. A creature caught in the vortex can use its action to try to swim away from the vortex as described above, but has disadvantage on the Strength (Athletics) check to do so.

Freeze: You cause the water in the area to freeze instantly. The water in the area becomes covered with a 6-inch-deep layer of ice that might be enough to support creatures. If you maintain the spell's concentration on it for the full duration, the ice lasts for 1 hour. Waters frozen by this spell are unaffected by shape water.

Death Ward - Classes: Cleric, Paladin; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 8 Hours; Components: a diamond worth at least 300 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: You touch a creature and grant it the ability to fight off death. The first time the target would drop to 0 hit points as a result of taking damage, the target instead drops to 1 hit point, and the spell ends.

If the spell is still in effect when the target is subjected to an effect that would kill it instantaneously without dealing damage, that effect is instead negated against the target, and the spell ends.

Divination - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 10 Minutes; Range: Self; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: incense and a sacrificial offering appropriate to your religion, together worth at least 25 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description: Your magic and an offering put you in contact with a god or a god's servants. You ask a single question concerning a specific goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The GM offers a truthful reply. The reply might be a short phrase, a cryptic rhyme, or an omen.

The spell doesn't take into account any possible circumstances that might change the outcome, such as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain of a companion.

If you cast the spell two or more times before finishing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get a random reading. The GM makes this roll in secret.

Dominate Beast - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: a pinch of fur or a feather from a beast; Spell Description: You attempt to beguile a beast that you can see within range. It must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.

While the beast is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue commands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as "Attack that creature," "Run over there," or "Fetch that object." If the creature completes the order and doesn't receive further direction from you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.

You can use your action to take total and precise control of the target. Until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn't do anything that you don't allow it to do. During this time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.

Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new Wisdom saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.

Elemental Bane - Classes: Druid, Warlock, Wizard, Artificer; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: V, S; Spell Description: Choose one creature you can see within range, and choose one of the following damage types: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be affected by the spell for its duration. The first time each turn the affected target takes damage of the chosen type, the target takes an extra 2d6 damage of that type. Moreover, the target loses any resistance to that damage type until the spell ends.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 4th. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.

Evard's Black Tentacles - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: V, S, M (a piece of tentacle from a giant octopus or a giant squid); Spell Description: Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on the ground that you can see within range. For the duration, these tentacles turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.

When a creature enters the affected area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 3d6 bludgeoning damage and be restrained by the tentacles until the spell ends. A creature that starts its turn in the area and is already restrained by the tentacles takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage.

A creature restrained by the tentacles can use its action to make a Strength or Dexterity check (its choice) against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.

Fabricate - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 10 Minutes; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: V, S; Spell Description: You convert raw materials into products of the same material. For example, you can fabricate a wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a patch of hemp, and clothes from flax or wool.

Choose raw materials that you can see within range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object (contained within a 10-foot cube, or eight connected 5-foot cubes), given a sufficient quantity of raw material. If you are working with metal, stone, or another mineral substance, however, the fabricated object can be no larger than Medium (contained within a single 5-foot cube). The quality of objects made by the spell is commensurate with the quality of the raw materials.

Creatures or magic items can’t be created or transmuted by this spell. You also can’t use it to create items that ordinarily require a high degree of craftsmanship, such as jewelry, weapons, glass, or armor unless you have proficiency with the type of artisan’s tools used to craft such objects.

Find Greater Steed - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 10 Minutes; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: V, S, M (a bit of food); Spell Description: You summon a spirit that assumes the form of a loyal, majestic mount. Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the spirit takes on a form you choose: a griffon, a pegasus, a peryton, a dire wolf, a rhinoceros, or a saber-toothed tiger. The creature has the statistics provided in the Monster Manual for the chosen form, though it is a celestial, a fey, or a fiend (your choice) instead of its normal creature type. Additionally, if it has an Intelligence score of 5 or lower, its Intelligence becomes 6, and it gains the ability to understand one language of your choice that you speak. You control the mount in combat. While the mount is within 1 mile of you, you can communicate with it telepathically. While mounted on it, you can make any spell you cast that targets only you also target the mount. The mount disappears temporarily when it drops to 0 hit points or when you dismiss it as an action. Casting this spell again re-summons the bonded mount, with all its hit points restored and any conditions removed. You can’t have more than one mount bonded by this spell or find steed at the same time. As an action, you can release a mount from its bond, causing it to disappear permanently. Whenever the mount disappears, it leaves behind any objects it was wearing or carrying.

Fire Shield - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: 10 minutes; Components: A bit of phosphorus or a firefly; Spell Description:
Thin and wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration, shedding bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. You can end the spell early by using an action to dismiss it.

The flames provide you with a warm shield or a chill shield, as you choose. The warm shield grants you resistance to cold damage, and the chill shield grants you resistance to fire damage.

In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet of you hits you with a melee attack, the shield erupts with flame. The attacker takes 2d8 fire damage from a warm shield, or 2d8 cold damage from a cold shield.

Freedom of Movement - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: 1 hour; Components: A leather strap, bound around the arm or a similar appendage; Spell Description:
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the target’s movement is unaffected by difficult terrain, and spells and other magical effects can neither reduce the target’s speed nor cause the target to be paralyzed or restrained.

The target can also spend 5 feet of movement to automatically escape from nonmagical restraints, such as manacles or a creature that has it grappled. Finally, being underwater imposes no penalties on the target’s movement or attacks.

Galder's Speedy Courier - Classes: Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 10 feet; Duration: 10 minutes; Components: 25 gold pieces, or mineral goods of equivalent value, which the spell consumes; Spell Description:
You summon a Small air elemental to a spot within range. The air elemental is formless, nearly transparent, immune to all damage, and cannot interact with other creatures or objects. It carries an open, empty chest whose interior dimensions are 3 feet on each side. While the spell lasts, you can deposit as many items inside the chest as will fit. You can then name a living creature you have met and seen at least once before, or any creature for which you possess a body part, lock of hair, clipping from a nail, or similar portion of the creature’s body.

As soon as the lid of the chest is closed, the elemental and the chest disappear, then reappear adjacent to the target creature. If the target creature is on another plane, or if it is proofed against magical detection or location, the contents of the chest reappear on the ground at your feet.

The target creature is made aware of the chest’s contents before it chooses whether or not to open it, and knows how much of the spell’s duration remains in which it can retrieve them. No other creature can open the chest and retrieve its contents. When the spell expires or when all the contents of the chest have been removed, the elemental and the chest disappear. The elemental also disappears if the target creature orders it to return the items to you. When the elemental disappears, any items not taken from the chest reappear on the ground at your feet.

Giant Insect - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description:
You transform up to ten centipedes, three spiders, five wasps, or one scorpion within range into giant versions of their natural forms for the duration. A centipede becomes a giant centipede, a spider becomes a giant spider, a wasp becomes a giant wasp, and a scorpion becomes a giant scorpion.

Each creature obeys your verbal commands, and in combat, they act on your turn each round. The DM has the statistics for these creatures and resolves their actions and movement.

A creature remains in its giant size for the duration, until it drops to 0 hit points, or until you use an action to dismiss the effect on it.

The DM might allow you to choose different targets. For example, if you transform a bee, its giant version might have the same statistics as a giant wasp.

Grasping Vine - Classes: Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description:
You conjure a vine that sprouts from the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within range. When you cast this spell, you can direct the vine to lash out at a creature within 30 feet of it that you can see. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be pulled 20 feet directly toward the vine.

Until the spell ends, you can direct the vine to lash out at the same creature or another one as a bonus action on each of your turns.

Gravity Sinkhole - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A black marble; Spell Description:
A 20-foot-radius sphere of crushing force forms at a point you can see within range and tugs at the creatures there. Each creature in the sphere must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 5d10 force damage and is pulled in a straight line toward the center of the sphere, ending in an unoccupied space as close to the center as possible (even if that space is in the air). On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and isn't pulled.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 4th.

Greater Invisibility - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description:
You or a creature you touch becomes invisible until the spell ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is invisible as long as it is on the target’s person.

Guardian of Faith - Classes: Cleric; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 8 hours; Components: None; Spell Description:
A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for the duration in an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within range. The guardian occupies that space and is indistinct except for a gleaming sword and shield emblazoned with the symbol of your deity.

Any creature hostile to you that moves to a space within 10 feet of the guardian for the first time on a turn must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 20 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The guardian vanishes when it has dealt a total of 60 damage.

Guardian of Nature - Classes: Druid; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description:
A nature spirit answers your call and transforms you into a powerful guardian. The transformation lasts until the spell ends. You choose one of the following forms to assume: Primal Beast or Great Tree.

Primal Beast: Bestial fur covers your body, your facial features become feral, and you gain the following benefits:

Your walking speed increases by 10 feet.
You gain darkvision with a range of 120 feet.
You make Strength-based attack rolls with advantage.
Your melee weapon attacks deal an extra 1d6 force damage on a hit.
Great Tree: Your skin appears barky, leaves sprout from your hair, and you gain the following benefits:

You gain 10 temporary hit points.
You make Constitution saving throws with advantage.
You make Dexterity-based attack rolls with advantage.
While you are on the ground, the ground within 15 feet of you is difficult terrain for your enemies.
Hallucinatory Terrain - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 10 minutes; Range: 300 feet; Duration: 24 hours; Components: A stone, a twig, and a bit of green plant; Spell Description:
You make natural terrain in a 150-foot cube in range look, sound, and even smell like some other sort of natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road.

Manufactured structures, equipment, and creatures within the area aren’t changed in appearance.

The tactile characteristics of the terrain are unchanged, so creatures entering the area are likely to see through the illusion. If the difference isn’t obvious by touch, a creature carefully examining the illusion can attempt an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve it. A creature who discerns the illusion for what it is, sees it as a vague image superimposed on the terrain.

Ice Storm - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 300 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A pinch of dust and a few drops of water; Spell Description:
A hail of rock-hard ice pounds to the ground in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range. Each creature in the cylinder must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Hailstones turn the storm’s area of effect into difficult terrain until the end of your next turn.

Leomund's Secret Chest - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: An exquisite chest, 3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet, constructed from rare materials worth at least 5,000 gp, and a Tiny replica made from the same materials worth at least 50 gp; Spell Description:
You hide a chest, and all its contents, on the Ethereal Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature replica that serves as a material component for the spell. The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).

While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, you can use an action and touch the replica to recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space on the ground within 5 feet of you. You can send the chest back to the Ethereal Plane by using an action and touching both the chest and the replica.

After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent chance per day that the spell’s effect ends. This effect ends if you cast this spell again, if the smaller replica chest is destroyed, or if you choose to end the spell as an action. If the spell ends and the larger chest is on the Ethereal Plane, it is irretrievably lost.

Mordenkainen's Faithful Hound - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: 8 hours; Components: A tiny silver whistle, a piece of bone, and a thread; Spell Description:
You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied space that you can see within range, where it remains for the duration, until you dismiss it as an action, or until you move more than 100 feet away from it.

The hound is invisible to all creatures except you and can't be harmed. When a Small or larger creature comes within 30 feet of it without first speaking the password that you specify when you cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The hound sees invisible creatures and can see into the Ethereal Plane. It ignores illusions.

At the start of each of your turns, the hound attempts to bite one creature within 5 feet of it that is hostile to you. The hound's attack bonus is equal to your spellcasting ability modifier + your proficiency bonus. On a hit, it deals 4d8 piercing damage.

Mordenkainen's Private Sanctum - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: 24 hours; Components: A thin sheet of lead, a piece of opaque glass, a wad of cotton or cloth, and powdered chrysolite; Spell Description:
You make an area within range magically secure. The area is a cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large as 100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for the duration or until you use an action to dismiss it.

When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of security the spell provides, choosing any or all of the following properties:

Sound can't pass through the barrier at the edge of the warded area.
The barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy, preventing vision (including darkvision) through it.
Sensors created by divination spells can't appear inside the protected area or pass through the barrier at its perimeter.
Creatures in the area can't be targeted by divination spells.
Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded area.
Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.
Casting this spell on the same spot every day for a year makes this effect permanent.
At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can increase the size of the cube by 100 feet for each slot level beyond 4th. Thus, you could protect a cube that can be up to 200 feet on one side by using a spell slot of 5th level.

Otiluke's Resilient Sphere - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 30 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A hemispherical piece of clear crystal and a matching hemispherical piece of gum arabic; Spell Description:
A sphere of shimmering force encloses a creature or object of Large size or smaller within range. An unwilling creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is enclosed for the duration.

Nothing – not physical objects, energy, or other spell effects – can pass through the barrier, in or out, though a creature in the sphere can breathe there. The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature or object inside can't be damaged by attacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a creature inside the sphere damage anything outside it.

The sphere is weightless and just large enough to contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed creature can use its action to push against the sphere's walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half the creature's speed. Similarly, the globe can be picked up and moved by other creatures.

A Disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it without harming anything inside it.

Phantasmal Killer - Classes: Bard, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description:
You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see within range and create an illusory manifestation of its deepest fears, visible only to that creature.

The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target becomes frightened for the duration. At the end of each of the target's turns before the spell ends, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 4d10 psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell ends.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 4th.

Polymorph - Classes: Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A caterpillar cocoon; Spell Description:
This spell transforms a creature that you can see within range into a new form. An unwilling creature must make a Wisdom saving throw to avoid the effect. A shapechanger automatically succeeds on this saving throw.

The transformation lasts for the duration, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies. The new form can be any beast whose challenge rating is equal to or less than the target's (or the target's level, if it doesn't have a challenge rating). The target's game statistics, including mental ability scores, are replaced by the statistics of the chosen beast. It retains its alignment and personality.

The target assumes the hit points of its new form. When it reverts to its normal form, the creature returns to the number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess damage doesn't reduce the creature's normal form to 0 hit points, it isn't knocked unconscious.

The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by the nature of its new form, and it can't speak, cast spells, or take any other action that requires hands or speech.

The target's gear melds into the new form. The creature can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment. This spell can't affect a target that has 0 hit points.

Raulothim's Psychic Lance (UA) - Classes: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: None; Spell Description:
You unleash a shimmering lance of psychic power from your forehead at a creature that you can see within range. Alternatively, you can utter the creature's name. If the named target is within range, it gains no benefit from cover or invisibility as the lance homes in on it. If the named target isn't within range, the lance dissipates, and the spell slot is not expended.

The target must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 10d6 psychic damage and be incapacitated until the start of your next turn.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.

Shadow Of Moil - Classes: Warlock; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: An undead eyeball encased in a gem worth at least 150 gp; Spell Description:
Flame-like shadows wreathe your body until the spell ends, causing you to become heavily obscured to others. The shadows turn dim light within 10 feet of you into darkness, and bright light in the same area to dim light.

Until the spell ends, you have resistance to radiant damage. In addition, whenever a creature within 10 feet of you hits you with an attack, the shadows lash out at that creature, dealing it 2d8 necrotic damage.

Sickening Radiance - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes; Components: None; Spell Description:
Dim, greenish light spreads within a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range. The light spreads around corners, and it lasts until the spell ends.

When a creature moves into the spell's area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 4d10 radiant damage, and it suffers one level of exhaustion and emits a dim, greenish light in a 5-foot radius. This light makes it impossible for the creature to benefit from being invisible. The light and any levels of exhaustion caused by this spell go away when the spell ends.

Staggering Smite - Classes: Paladin; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Bonus Action; Range: Self; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description:
The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack during this spell's duration, your weapon pierces both body and mind, and the attack deals an extra 4d6 psychic damage to the target. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and can't take reactions until the end of its next turn.

Stone Shape - Classes: Artificer, Cleric, Druid, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: Soft clay, which must be worked into roughly the desired shape of the stone object; Spell Description:
You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any dimension and form it into any shape that suits your purpose. So, for example, you could shape a large rock into a weapon, idol, or coffer, or make a small passage through a wall, as long as the wall is less than 5 feet thick. You could also shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut. The object you create can have up to two hinges and a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn't possible.

Stoneskin - Classes: Artificer, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: Diamond dust worth 100 gp, which the spell consumes; Spell Description:
This spell turns the flesh of a willing creature you touch as hard as stone. Until the spell ends, the target has resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage.

Storm Sphere - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 150 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: None; Spell Description:
A 20-foot-radius sphere of whirling air springs into existence centered on a point you choose within range. The sphere remains for the spell's duration. Each creature in the sphere when it appears or that ends its turn there must succeed on a Strength saving throw or take 2d6 bludgeoning damage. The sphere's space is difficult terrain.

Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to cause a bolt of lightning to leap from the center of the sphere toward one creature you choose within 60 feet of the center. Make a ranged spell attack. You have advantage on the attack roll if the target is in the sphere. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 lightning damage.

Creatures within 30 feet of the sphere have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to listen.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases for each of its effects by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.

Summon Aberration - Classes: Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A pickled tentacle and an eyeball in a platinum inlaid vial worth at least 400 gp; Spell Description:
You call forth an aberrant spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. This corporeal form uses the Aberrant Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose Beholderkin, Slaad, or Star Spawn. The creature resembles an aberration of that kind, which determines certain traits in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your companions. In combat, the creature shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its move to avoid danger.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, use the higher level wherever the spell's level appears on the stat block.

Summon Construct - Classes: Artificer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: An ornate stone and metal lockbox worth at least 400 gp; Spell Description:
You call forth the spirit of a construct. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. This corporeal form uses the Construct Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose a material: Clay, Metal, or Stone. The creature resembles a golem or a modron (your choice) made of the chosen material, which determines certain traits in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your companions. In combat, the creature shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its move to avoid danger.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, use the higher level wherever the spell's level appears in the stat block.

Summon Elemental - Classes: Druid, Ranger, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: Air, a pebble, ash, and water inside a gold-inlaid vial worth at least 400 gp; Spell Description:
You call forth an elemental spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. This corporeal form uses the Elemental Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose an element: Air, Earth, Fire, or Water. The creature resembles a bipedal form wreathed in the chosen element, which determines certain traits in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your companions. In combat, the creature shares your initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its move to avoid danger.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, use the higher level wherever the spell's level appears in the stat block.

Summon Greater Demon - Classes: Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: A vial of blood from a humanoid killed within the past 24 hours; Spell Description:
You utter foul words, summoning one demon from the chaos of the Abyss. You choose the demon's type, which must be one of challenge rating 5 or lower, such as a shadow demon or a barlgura. The demon appears in an unoccupied space you can see within range, and the demon disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.

Roll initiative for the demon, which has its own turns. When you summon it and on each of your turns thereafter, you can issue a verbal command to it (requiring no action on your part), telling it what it must do on its next turn. If you issue no command, it spends its turn attacking any creature within reach that has attacked it.

At the end of each of the demon's turns, it makes a Charisma saving throw. The demon has disadvantage on this saving throw if you say its true name. On a failed save, the demon continues to obey you. On a successful save, your control of the demon ends for the rest of the duration, and the demon spends its turns pursuing and attacking the nearest non-demons to the best of its ability. If you stop concentrating on the spell before it reaches its full duration, an uncontrolled demon doesn't disappear for 1d6 rounds if it still has hit points.

As part of casting the spell, you can form a circle on the ground with the blood used as a material component. The circle is large enough to encompass your space. While the spell lasts, the summoned demon can't cross the circle or harm it, and it can't target anyone within it. Using the material component in this manner consumes it when the spell ends.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the challenge rating increases by 1 for each slot level above 4th.

Synchronicity (UA) - Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour; Components: None; Spell Description:
The creature you touch feels reality subtly shifted to its favor while this spell is in effect. The target isn't inconvenienced by mundane delays of any sort. Traffic lights are always green, there's always a waiting elevator, and a taxi is always around the corner. The target can run at full speed through dense crowds, and attacks of opportunity provoked by the target's movement are made with disadvantage. Synchronicity grants advantage to Dexterity (Stealth) checks, since the target always finds a handy piece of cover available. Additionally, the target has advantage on all ability checks made to drive a vehicle.

In the event that two or more creatures under the effect of synchronicity are attempting to avoid being inconvenienced by each other, the creatures engage in a contest of Charisma each time the effects of the spells would oppose each other."

Vitriolic Sphere - Classes: Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; School: Evocation; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 150 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A drop of giant slug bile; Spell Description:
You point at a place within range, and a glowing 1-foot ball of emerald acid streaks there and explodes in a 20-foot radius. Each creature in that area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 10d4 acid damage and 5d4 acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turn.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the initial damage increases by 2d4 for each slot level above 4th.

Wall of Fire - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; School: Evocation; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 120 Feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A small piece of phosphorus; Spell Description:
You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.

When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5d8 fire damage, or half as much damage on a successful save.

One side of the wall, selected by you when you cast this spell, deals 5d8 fire damage to each creature that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. The other side of the wall deals no damage.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.

Watery Sphere - Classes: Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard; Spell Level: 4; School: Conjuration; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 90 feet; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute; Components: A droplet of water; Spell Description:
You conjure up a sphere of water with a 5-foot radius on a point you can see within range. The sphere can hover in the air, but no more than 10 feet off the ground. The sphere remains for the spell’s duration.

Any creature in the sphere’s space must make a Strength saving throw. On a successful save, a creature is ejected from that space to the nearest unoccupied space outside it. A Huge or larger creature succeeds on the saving throw automatically. On a failed save, a creature is restrained by the sphere and is engulfed by the water. At the end of each of its turns, a restrained target can repeat the saving throw.

The sphere can restrain a maximum of four Medium or smaller creatures or one Large creature. If the sphere restrains a creature in excess of these numbers, a random creature that was already restrained by the sphere falls out of it and lands prone in a space within 5 feet of it.

As an action, you can move the sphere up to 30 feet in a straight line. If it moves over a pit, cliff, or other drop, it safely descends until it is hovering 10 feet over the ground. Any creature restrained by the sphere moves with it. You can ram the sphere into creatures, forcing them to make the saving throw, but no more than once per turn.

When the spell ends, the sphere falls to the ground and extinguishes all normal flames within 30 feet of it. Any creature restrained by the sphere is knocked prone in the space where it falls.

Widogast's Vault of Amber (HB) - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 4; School: Transmutation; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: Touch; Duration: Until dispelled; Components: 5 small amber gems worth 200 gp; Spell Description:
You arrange 5 small amber gems in a loose circle around any non-living materials and trace Transmutative sigils above each of them. All materials within the circle are pulled into the largest of the gems and are stored there, in stasis. The contents do not age, weather, or rot. The gem can hold up to 500 lbs of material.

The caster can use an Action to speak a single, chosen word and release the gem's contents onto the ground. Contents are also released if dispelled.

Widogast's Web of Fire (HB) - Classes: Wizard; Spell Level: 4; School: Evocation; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: A cat's cradle of thread or string coated in phosphorus; Spell Description:
Striking both palm down upon the ground, a web of flame crackles out around the caster, and five streaks of fire rapidly snake along the ground toward up to five enemies the caster can see within a range of 60 feet, leaping towards their target and exploding into a column of flame upon reaching them. Each target must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Alternatively, all five streaks of fire can instead converge toward a single target, dealing 12d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

The fire can travel over obstacles up to 5 feet high, and ignites flammable objects along its path that aren't being worn or carried.

At Higher Levels: When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.

Geas - Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Wizard; Spell Level: 5; Cast Time: 1 Minute; Range: 60 Feet; Duration: 30 days; Components: None; Spell Description: You place a magical command on a creature that you can see within range, forcing it to carry out some service or refrain from some action or course of activity as you decide.

If the creature can understand you, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become charmed by you for the duration. While the creature is charmed by you, it takes 5d10 psychic damage each time it acts in a manner directly counter to your instructions, but no more than once each day. A creature that can’t understand you is unaffected by the spell.

You can issue any command you choose, short of an activity that would result in certain death. Should you issue a suicidal command, the spell ends. You can end the spell early by using an action to dismiss it. A Remove Curse, Greater Restoration, or Wish spell also ends it.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th or 8th level, the duration is 1 year. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 9th level, the spell lasts until it is ended by one of the spells mentioned above.

Greater Restoration - Classes: Artificer, Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger; Spell Level: 5; Cast Time: 1 Action; Range: Touch; Duration: Instantaneous; Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth at least 100 gp, which the spell consumes); Spell Description: You imbue a creature you touch with positive energy to undo a debilitating effect. You can reduce the target’s exhaustion level by one, or end one of the following effects on the target:

One effect that charmed or petrified the target
One curse, including the target’s attunement to a cursed magic item
Any reduction to one of the target’s ability scores
One effect reducing the target’s hit point maximum